MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of
nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons &amp; Dragons. Travis is in-transit, don't
freak out. He'll be here in just a moment. He's
making his way here from--
LAURA: He's busy this week.
SAM: He couldn't stand to face Laura.
LAURA: That's right.
MATT: Well, if he knew what was good for him.
Before we get into tonight's episode, let's go
into some quick announcements. First and foremost,
our fantastic returning sponsors for this
campaign, our friends, our dear family at D&amp;D
Beyond. Sam.
SAM: Everybody, our trip to the UK changed us in a
lot of ways. We were exposed to the European
culture and that area of the world. We fell in
love with it. Tonight, there's so much to talk
about that I'm going to need some help. Everyone
knows Matt's Scottish accent is top notch, but
I've been studying with a dialect coach that I
found on Craigslist and I think I'm ready to
unveil my Scottish brogue. Now, because it's so
accurate, Matt's going to translate what I'm
saying. I'm going to be saying things in
traditional, accurate Scottish about D&amp;D Beyond
that he'll translate into American English.
TALIESIN: I'm weirdly on-board.
SAM: Okay, here we go. (exaggerated Scottish
accent) Hallo, ya bonnie lassies and laddies!
Don't be a wee dafty. Ma kelly ann's been
haverin how D&amp;D Beyond is the maest braw app up
tae hae though.
MATT: (pause, laughter) D&amp;D Beyond is proud to announce the
continuation of the Waterdeep campaign. Dungeon of
the Mad Mage is out tonight at 9:00pm Pacific.
SAM: Nae! I cannae be aff ma heed! It's Taps
Aff cos eh D&amp;D and Magic: The Gathering, ya numpty!
MATT: The long-awaited Magic: The Gathering / D&amp;D
crossover, Guildmaster's Guide to Ravnica, also
drops tonight at 9:00pm Pacific time.
SAM: Haud yer wheesht and nick it now or yer
fit to be getting skelp, ya herpuin jobbie.
MATT: You can get both at
dndbeyond.com/marketplace.
SAM: (regular voice) Oh, it's my turn! Oh no,
that's your line. Wait, that's my line. Okay.
(exaggerated Scottish accent) What ya doin the
weekend? Jings! You're a right hoodie dobber,
ye are, pure walloper--oot yer nut!
MATT: D&amp;D Beyond is hosting a two-day streaming
event this Friday and Saturday at Gamehole Con to
benefit Extra Life.
SAM: Ach! Where are Jock Tamson's bairns? It's
quality! I'm pure scunnered. (regular voice) I
looked these words up! They're real.
MATT: Both days will feature three, four-hour
sessions from 7:30am-- 7:30pm to 10:30--
SAM: a.m.!
MATT: All? Wow! From 7:30am to 10:00pm with
special guests raising money for a special cause.
LIAM: It's throwing him that badly.
MARISHA: Yeah.
[hat plays tinny, high-pitched "Scotland the Brave"]
SAM: Okay. (exaggerated Scottish accent) Call me
doonie, get on yer trolley and heed over to
twitch.tv/get-fooked-ya-clatty-radge-wee-shite!
MATT: Be sure to tune into twitch.tv/dndbeyond to
check it out.
[hat music continues]
MARISHA: That was not what I was expecting!
LAURA: Does it ever stop?
SAM: (regular voice) I don't know when it stops!
LAURA: Help! Make it end!
SAM: Don't press it again; it'll start again!
Maybe it's winding down. Ah!
LAURA: Yay!
MATT: Thank you, Sam.
SAM: Well, you know. We love London, we love UK,
we love it all.
MATT: My distant ancestry is extremely pleased
with your performance. Thank you, D&amp;D Beyond, as always.
LIAM: What is "to high doh?"
SAM: "To high doh," to high, though. It means
something? All these words are real. "Up to high
"doh" means a lot? I don't know!
MATT: Guide to Ravnica. The next episode of All
Work No Play will debut this Friday at
twitch.tv/criticalrole at 7:00pm Pacific. This
week, Liam and Sam are building a custom MAME
cabinet with Felicia Day and our fantastic
Director of Events, Brittany Walloch. MAME
cabinets, something I've been chasing my whole
life, and finally there is one in my vicinity.
SAM: Felicia joins us.
MATT: Awesome. Check that out Friday. Also,
through the month of November, and in celebration
of Veterans Day, we're raising money for Travis'
favorite charity, Operation Supply Drop. We've
talked about it before. We put up the account, you
guys have already raised a tremendous amount of
money for this. As much as we can get the word out
before the donation period closes, continue to
help them. Operation Supply Drop has already
helped over 750,000 members of the military
community since its inception. It continues to
support active military members, veterans, their
families. It's amazing, the work they do. We're
big fans of everything they do. Check out all the
information to donate now at critrole.com/osd.
Also, both the standard and deluxe editions of our
second art book, The Chronicles of Exandria,
Legend of Vox Machina, will be on sale via
pre-order this coming Monday, November 12, at
9:00am Pacific. This art book contains art from
our fantastic, beloved community of critter
artists. They've all put it together with love and
joy and I'm super proud of it. These guys, like,
died to get it done. The number of artists-- you
guys did incredible work. We're excited for you
guys to check it out, and super excited to
announce, for our European critters, the art book
will be shipped out to our brand new fulfillment
center.in the United Kingdom that we just set up!
A lot of hard work to finally get a fulfilment
center that side. This will drastically reduce
shipping costs and delivery times for our European
family out there. Super stoked to have this
finally functional. We'll have more details to
that available on Monday morning when all this
goes on sale.
SAM: Should I translate what you just said for our
Scottish audience?
MATT: Do I have a choice?
SAM: No.
LIAM: I'm going to show off an image from inside
the book. This is the standard, by the way. Matteo
Scalera, an artist that I fell in love with
reading the Black Science comic book. He's fucking
amazing and the cover is--
SAM: That's the standard?
LIAM: This is the standard.
SAM: Holy shit, that's good.
LIAM: This book is so beautiful. Show that thing
off and I'm going to find a picture.
TALIESIN: Yeah, this is the beautiful deluxe
edition which comes with a little ribbon and you
can see this wonderful cover art with Vecna in the
center and the four gods depicted in the corners
all cowering before his might.
MATT: The four major deities that were involved in
that final arc.
LIAM: I'm going to show off a little Ioun. Look at
this!
LAURA: Oh my god!
TALIESIN: Who are these lovely kids right over
here?
LAURA: Oh my god!
TALIESIN: It's right there.
MATT: Just like that, it goes away. Look forward
to the information about that this coming Monday
at critrole.com. I believe those are all of our
announcements, and with that, let's go ahead and
jump into tonight's episode of Critical Role.
[TV static, click]
[groovy Critical Role theme]
MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome back. Last we
left off: The Mighty Nein, after making a daring
escape from the Temple of the False Serpent on the
island of Urukaxl had managed to nearly drown in
the escape, make their way through the jungle
being chased by both yuan-ti and the lizardmen
denizens of this island. Making their way to the
shore just in time to have the actual pirate ship,
the Squalleater, there to defend you. Firing
various heavy cannonballs towards the creatures
which had given chase and allowing you to escape
on the boats to safety. Upon reaching the top of
the ship you found that the Mistake has been
repaired enough to be seaworthy, though it does
need some more intense repairs. Your supplies are
relatively low, and it looks like the current
goal is to find your journey westward to the island
of Darktow which has been wiped-- from your
knowledge-- wiped from the Clovis Concord's
control many years ago and currently resides as
the center of all piracy in the Lucidian Ocean. As
you all went to rest for the evening, Fjord-- who
will be here shortly, so I can continue to
embarrass him-- had an evening's conversation with
Captain Avantika, in which it was discussed his
past history with his childhood father figure, who
also seemed to have a history with Avantika as
well and is somehow rolled in with this strange
Uk'otoa phenomenon. It also came to light that
this shipwreck which gave Fjord his powers might
have a connection, based on the Captain's
intuition, with where this third and final sphere
may lie, and it was decided between the two of
them that this may be the next goal, beyond
Darktow, to pursue. After which, they fucked.
LAURA: (screaming)
(laughter)
MATT: While that era of the story is transpiring,
I want to ask you guys, since we have a moment here--
LIAM: While they're fucking?
MATT: Or in the loose, wibbly-wobbly, timey-wimey
period of figuring things out as you recover from
the intense return to the ship. What would you
like to do? Is there anything you want to check up
on? First of all, everyone leveled up to seven.
LAURA: Did we get a long rest after?
MATT: This would be the long rest-- for everyone
but Fjord, I guess.
SAM: Nice. This isn't the next few days of our
sailing adventure, this is that night?
MATT: This is that night. We will then begin to
embark on what that journey will be, but if
there's anything you wish to do before the
evening's done.
TALIESIN: I already gave my shade, I'm done.
Honestly, that was all I needed.
LIAM: I would try to locate Caduceus on the boat,
actually. I don't know if he's hiding or not.
TALIESIN: Oh, I'm in my room because I was-- is
this before Fjord came back?
MATT: We can say this is while Fjord is out.
TALIESIN: Okay, so I'm in my room.
LIAM: I will go to where he is on the boat and--
(knocking).
TALIESIN: Hey, Mister Caleb. Good evening.
LIAM: You look--
TALIESIN: Battered.
LIAM: Tired as I feel. Do you have a moment?
TALIESIN: Sure. What can I do for you?
LIAM: May I come in?
TALIESIN: Oh, yes. Of course.
LIAM: (clears throat) I feel a little poorly for
the time you have been having, traveling with us.
It was not a very good day. It's been a string of
bad ones, in fact, and I am grateful to have you
along with this group because we get hurt a lot
and stick our noses places maybe we shouldn't. You
have been very helpful.
TALIESIN: I think I'm coming to the realization
that perhaps I was not entirely clear on what I
signed up for, but I don't think that means that
it's the wrong path. I'm getting used to the idea
that it wouldn't be a test if it were easy.
LIAM: Is it your intention to continue on with
us?
TALIESIN: I... I joined your group of friends-- I guess
our group of friends, now-- as a testament of
faith, and it would be a disservice to that faith
to turn around because it's hard. If it'd have
been easy, I suppose I wouldn't have been needed
to be called to it. I've been thinking a lot about
it. Jester gave me a lot to think about, to be
honest.
LIAM: Well, sometimes acts of good faith deserve
to be rewarded, when they can. I wanted to give
you something that will make your time with us a
little bit easier, I suppose. I start to pull the
periapt out and untie it. This-- you know, I'm
always so far back away from-- I hear you, Laura,
in my peripheral, I hear you. I'm always very far
back anyway, this isn't doing me much good, and
it's better that you stay up more than I stay up
because if you go down, that's it. This is a
little bit of extra protection-- anyway.
TALIESIN: Mister Caleb, do you believe in fate?
There are lots of different kinds of fate; I know
that's a heavy question, but do you believe that
we are driven towards something by things that are
greater than ourselves?
(background music)
LIAM: I don't know. I would like to think not, but
I don't know.
TALIESIN: There are times that I think about the
cruelties of the world and the things that have
been put upon me and my family, and I would hate
for that to be a plan, and there are times when,
like today, I'm very grateful for being in the
right place at the right time to make sure that
the right people are becoming strong in ways they
need to be. I don't think that excuses the pain, I
don't think that you have to-- I don't know, I
don't think that you have to not care about it or
fight it with everything you've got, but I think
the world is shaping you into something important,
and I want to make sure that you get to wherever
you need to be.
LIAM: That's a pretty big matzo ball.
TALIESIN: You won't have to work very hard at it,
I imagine. I think just being you wherever the
world puts you will do just fine.
LIAM: If you have this-- this is magic, by the
way.
TALIESIN: I can tell.
LIAM: Here you go.
TALIESIN: Thank you.
LIAM: I help you, that makes it easier to help all
of us.
TALIESIN: I promise I will continue to help you
all. Even when we're not the best of people, I
feel like we're still moving towards something
that's good and worthwhile, and I'm feeling the
struggle's in my way to bring us to where we need
to be.
LIAM: Welcome to the Nein.
TALIESIN: I'm honored.
LIAM: Okay, I feel like shit, so I'm going to go
to bed.
TALIESIN: Thank you for this, I won't forget it.
(chair scrape)
MARISHA: Just like Fjord.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Meanwhile, one hour later.
LIAM: Rolling them double ones.
MATT: You get to remove that item, and you get to
add it to your--
TALIESIN: I'm adding which item?
LIAM: Periapt of wound closure. It just feels
right that it's with you.
SAM: What does it do?
LIAM: Makes it harder for him to die. It was
Molly's.
MARISHA: I'm going to go to Caleb when he gets
back. (knocking) Caleb! Caleb! Caleb!
LIAM: Where's my owl?
MARISHA: Oh, right! It doesn't drown, it's
amazing. It's like it's magic or something. We had
good times.
LIAM: You have three or four more days, if you
want.
MARISHA: Do I?!
LIAM: Yeah, I--
MARISHA: Can you do me a favor?
MATT: Pocketed.
MARISHA: Pocket owl. Right next to my bacon.
LIAM: iOwl.
MARISHA: I got this red feather from Nila-- and I
don't know, when she handed it to me, she was
like-- very deliberate on how she handed it to me.
Will you just see if it's magic?
LIAM: You want to know if this is something? Do
you have a moment?
MARISHA: Yeah.
LIAM: Okay. I will cast Identify on this.
MATT: It is not magical, it is sentimental.
LIAM: Ja, that's a feather. That's just a
feather. It's good looking, though.
MARISHA: Tie it to my staff. I'm not
disappointed.
LIAM: Okay.
MARISHA: I'm not disappointed!
LIAM: Are you good?
MARISHA: I'm-- bye. I'm going to go to bed.
LAURA: Can I pull out Sprinkle?
MATT: Okay. As you reach back into your
waterlogged hood of your coat, you hear this tiny
little (coughing) and there you pull out this
extremely waterlogged and unhappy crimson weasel.
(chittering and coughing)
LAURA: You're so tough, Sprinkle. I'm going to
squish his little cheeks.
MATT: He pees in your hand.
LAURA: Oh, thank you. Okay, go right to your--
stay there. Don't drown, okay? Then I'm going to
look for Beau, but she's not around, so then I'm
going to go look for Nott.
SAM: I'm drinking.
MATT and LAURA: Where are you drinking?
SAM: I don't know where. Are we all staying in the
room or do we have a couple of rooms?
MATT: There are three rooms between the group, I
think, that have been given to you and the people
that have been moved to the Mistake.
SAM: Let's say that I'm drinking on the deck of
the ship.
LAURA: Oh good. I was on the deck of the ship,
too. How perfect. Hey, Nott.
SAM: Hi.
LAURA: Hi. Are you super wasted?
SAM: I've got a good buzz on.
LAURA: Okay. I have a question for you.
SAM: Yeah?
LAURA: Have you-- I mean, I think you have because
you said you were, like, into somebody before. Have
you ever kissed a boy?
SAM: Hmm.
MARISHA: That was the cutest.
LIAM: It's pretty cute.
SAM: I've kissed a boy.
LAURA: Yeah? What was it like?
SAM: Excuse me?
LAURA: What was it like when you kissed him?
SAM: Have you never kissed someone?
LAURA: No, well--
SAM: You're related-- your mom is a master of
sexuality--
LAURA: I was asking what it was like when you
kissed someone. That's all!
SAM: Because you haven't done it.
LAURA: Well, I didn't know if it counted.
SAM: Oh. Well, what was the situation?
LAURA: I was drowning.
SAM: Oh, you mean today? Oh!
LAURA: Does that count, though?
SAM: Okay. Well, I mean, let's take a look at
this. Your lips pressed against each others'.
LAURA: Yes.
SAM: It meant something.
LAURA: Yeah.
SAM: How did it make you feel?
LAURA: Like I wasn't dead.
SAM: Yeah. Alive. That is the feeling. Did it make
your heart beat faster than, you know, being
completely stopped how it was.
LAURA: Yeah, I think so. I mean, it's not dead.
SAM: If I had to do my first kiss over again, I
would want all of those things.
LAURA: Really?
SAM: Yes! That's the best first kiss. It's someone
you care about--
LAURA: Well, I didn't know if it counted.
SAM: It means something. You'll remember it
forever.
LAURA: I will. I will remember the after part of
it, you know?
SAM: Oh yes.
LAURA: I was a little struggling in the beginning
part.
SAM: Well, yes. Afterwards, I don't know if you
felt this way, you just can't stop thinking about
it and you just feel the soft pressing against you
and almost taste him just for a little bit and it
doesn't go away for a while.
LAURA: I think his tusks are growing back.
SAM: You felt a little--
LAURA: Just a little bit of tusk!
SAM: Ooh!
LAURA: Yeah! What was your first kiss like,
though?
SAM: It wasn't as romantic. It was just a dare.
LAURA: Oh, really?
SAM: Yes.
LAURA: With who?
SAM: I don't know. Just someone. I don't even
remember too much.
LAURA: That's weird. You said you never forget
it.
SAM: I sure did. It was just-- you know? I was
pretty young and kids just saying like, "Oh, you
"kiss each other and you kiss each other now." Just
one of those types of games.
LAURA: I think kids do that sort of stuff a lot.
SAM: I think so too, but I don't remember his
name.
LAURA: Oh. Do you remember the softness of his
lips?
SAM: I do. Yes. It was a good day.
LAURA: Yeah, today's pretty cool too.
SAM: Well, do you think things will change now
between you?
LAURA: Oh, no. I mean, he might have a big crush
on me now, you know?
SAM: Are you interested?
LAURA: Oh, I don't know, you know?
SAM: Well. Sometimes, boys like-- Why am I telling
you all this? Your mom's a lady of the night!
LAURA: Yeah, I know!
SAM: Sometimes boys like it if you are a little
bit aloof. A little bit cold to them afterwards
like maybe they did something wrong and they don't
even know what it was.
LAURA: Really?
SAM: Yes!
LAURA: Like, the play the games?
SAM: Yes! Just a little bit of like-- just keep
them guessing like "Did I say something? Did I do
"something? Was I a bad kisser?"
LAURA: Okay.
SAM: That would put him on the defensive where you
want him.
LAURA: That's right!
SAM: Then you cut his throat and fucking kill him!
I'm just kidding about all that. I don't know.
LAURA: Okay. Because I don't want to do that--
SAM: No! Of course not! He's our friend.
LAURA: Okay. Well, all right! Have fun with your
flask, okay?
SAM: All right, I will.
LAURA: I'm going to go write in my journal.
SAM: Have fun drawing.
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: As everyone concludes their evening
activities, the journey, looking at the map and
the distance, is about 800 miles to Darktow from
Urukayxl.
TALIESIN: (intones theme from Pirates of the
Caribbean)
MATT: Yeah, essentially. The ship normally--
LIAM: Jesus Christ!
SAM: We should solve this at some point, right? We
should get some bean bags or something?
LAURA: We should probably just rotate it. Maybe if
you would roll it the other direction, it
straightens it out. Did you know that?
MARISHA: Put in under my-- okay.
MATT: Now it's not centered. Whatever. It's fine.
You guys deal with your map. It's not mine. It's
your map. Do what you want. Not my responsibility!
Your ship is actually traveling faster than it
normally was as part of the blessing that Avantika
received. It can achieve about 55 miles--
SAM: An hour?!
MATT: No. An entire day of travel which is a bit
faster than a general sailing ship which is why
the Mistake can go faster, but they're a pair.
You're looking at about 14 days of travel.
MARISHA: To Darktow?
MATT: To Darktow, yeah.
MARISHA: 14 days?!
MATT: Welcome to being on the open seas, man.
MARISHA: Oh shit!
MATT: They don't have bullet trains in D&amp;D. You
have 11 days of supplies. There will have to be
some sort of supply stop or a way of handling
that.
TALIESIN: I have a thing called Create Food and
Water.
LAURA: I do too.
TALIESIN: We can mix it up with the normal food so
it doesn't taste as bad.
MATT: That is going to make this journey not an
issue when it comes to supplies. Look at that.
(singsong) Divine magic.
TALIESIN: Teamwork!
MATT: You don't have to stop then. All right,
great!
TALIESIN: So sorry. We just burned an entire
encounter like, "Yeah! Fuck whatever Matthew made."
SAM: Is food and water the only thing we need? Do
we need any other supplies to make this trip? I
don't know.
MATT: Not to get to Darktow. At Darktow, there
will be repairs made to the other ship and
possibly some small repairs to the ship for its
journey and any other supplies you would need
while there. It's a 14 day journey at full speed.
During this time, a couple of things. One, you
guys can decide to, if you want to, learn how to
run a boat.
MARISHA: I would like that very much.
MATT: That being the case, we get to decide what
types of skill sets you want to pick up on out
here in the ocean. That being the case, we have
the quartermaster. Quartermaster is the one who
has the most authority other than the captain of
the ship. They take over if the captain is unable
to. They divvy up plunder or whenever you board a
prized vessel, they decide what to take and what
to leave. They generally helm that whole process
there, as far as pirate ships are concerned. There
is the navigator or the sailing master.
LIAM: Dibs.
MATT: You do have Orly hired to do that for you,
but Orly can also train one of you to be a backup
in case Orly--
TALIESIN: I was about to say anything like being
able to go by the stars or otherwise is something
I might be able to do very well.
MATT: You can both train under him if you want to.
You can overlap.
LAURA: You do have memory--
LIAM: I know which direction is north at all
times. I don't forget anything. I'm real smart
in-game.
TALIESIN: Fair.
LIAM: Just in the game.
TALIESIN: Just lording that rap battle over me.
Okay, that's fine.
MATT: We have the boatswain. Boatswain is in
charge of the ship itself. You know, keeping it in
top shape for travel and battle. They handle
looking over the wood, the canvas, the ropes,
making sure that everything's solid and
functional. They lead shore parties for supplies
and repairs and oversee activities like dropping
and weighing the anchor, setting the sails,
cleaning the deck, things like that. Start
thinking of things you might be interested in.
There's the cooper, which makes and maintains
barrels for storage, food and water. There's the
carpenter, which is the one that actually repairs
the ship's structural integrity when it takes
damage. They answer to the boatswain. They keep
the hull, the masts, and the yardarms functional.
There's the master gunner who organizes the
placement of shot, powder, the fuse and aiming the
ship's cannons. All right, so, Nott's going to
want to train as the master gunner. And, of
course, powder monkey, which is the next one below
who basically runs all the stuff.
SAM: Powder monkey?
MATT: Powder monkey.
SAM: Maybe I'll apprentice as that first?
MATT: Apprentice as powder monkey and, should it
be needed, you'll become, hopefully, a good master
gunner. Those are the most important aspects.
Everyone'll learn a little bit about sailing as
you go, but start getting an idea, if you want to
right now, which one of those you'd want to
specifically begin to focus on.
LAURA: What does the boatswain do again?
SAM: Manager of the ship. Like the office manager,
right? Keeps it running?
MATT: Yeah, makes sure that all the canvas, the
ropes, the wood, everything's in good condition.
TRAVIS: I have experience being a quartermaster,
so I'll do that as well.
LAURA: Oh, okay.
SAM: He said quartermaster, not boatswain.
LAURA: I guess I'll do the boatswain stuff? I feel
like I'll be really bad at it.
MATT: We'll find out. Train as the boatswain.
Which, actually, to that point, the next morning,
as everyone begins to go about the first real day
out here in the Lucidian Ocean, clear blue sky
with dappled bits of cloud around you, the smell
of sea salt and foam and spray making its way as
it splashes across the front of the bow, Avantika
catches up to you with Vera being called up to the
side. She goes, "Vera, if you'd be so kind, I
would like to call-- let's say the utmost members
"of the crew, please, to the deck. Maybe some of
your friends as well."
TRAVIS: Of course, I'll bring them up.
MATT: As you all gather on the deck, Avantika
goes, "I appreciate all of the hard work you've
"put into this, my crew and yours. As we are making
our way back it is important that we properly
"balance as we endeavor here and make sure that
both training that has been inquired about is
"properly disseminated, and, out of curiosity, and
with no disrespect to you Vera, I will be
"replacing you as the ship's quartermaster until we
return to Darktow with our Captain Tusktooth."
Vera looks taken aback and briefly offended, and
then, "But of course, my captain." "Quartermaster,
"time to start paying attention."
TRAVIS: Indeed.
MATT: She begins to divvy out responsibilities to
the rest of you in the various positions that you
requested to start learning. Some elements of the
journey have you moving over to the Mistake, some
have you moving back, especially for the repairs
elements, whoever decides they want to be the
carpenter. Unless none of you want to. That's up
to you.
SAM: You're strong.
LAURA: I'm strong, maybe I should be the
carpenter!
SAM: Do you have any--
LAURA: I've got no.
SAM and LAURA: Nothing.
MATT: It's up to you.
MARISHA: What was that cooper position? Barrels?
MATT: Makes and maintains barrels.
SAM: Hey, you've been around barrels your whole
life!
MARISHA: I already know how to make a barrel.
LAURA: Do you want to be the boatswain?
TALIESIN: I was thinking the one where you
actually have to go out and find supplies. I might
be really good at that.
MATT: That is the boatswain.
TALIESIN: Yeah, I'll take the boatswain.
LAURA: Okay, then I'll do the carpenter.
MATT: There we go. Note that somewhere on your
character that those are the positions you're
training on this journey. All right, cooper, got
it.
MARISHA: Making barrels.
SAM: I'm the gunner! Well, the powder monkey.
MATT: Powder monkey for now.
SAM: For now. Working my way up.
MATT: A few days into this journey, we'll say
because you're training as the carpenter--
LAURA: Yes!
MATT: Jester, the Mistake is keeping in time with
the Squalleater and you're brought-- it slows down
a bit and you're brought over to the opposite side
and there, looking around, you wander under the
deck and find, at one of the tables, Waldok, who's
one of the deckhands of the ship. He's currently
sitting at a table with a large tankard of really
rough grog or ale, biting his lower lip, and he
has his sleeve pulled up and you can see Orly has
this unique bowstring of some kind that's wrapped
between two fingers, an inkwell, and a needle
that's tied up in it, and he's currently halfway
through doing this really good-looking, elaborate
tattoo across the arm of this deckhand.
LAURA: Whoa!
MATT: He's got his patch over his eye, right up
against one of the portholes where the light's
coming through and he's using it for perspective,
and he's lording over this smaller, thin human,
and glances over, "Oh, hey there."
LAURA: Can I go stand over his shoulder and stare
at what he's doing?
MATT: Yeah, you keep watch and he's doing this
curled mermaid that is coming up and, on one hand
is holding on at the hip and the other is picking
a fruit off of a tree. You begin to question the
design a bit and Orly says, offhand, "It's what he
requested."
LAURA: Why are you having a mermaid pick fruit if
she's in the water?
MATT: He's sitting there going like, "(grunting)
Well, I had a rough fight with some scurvy a few
"years back and a few things I like the idea of
ladies in the sea that can save me from scurvy."
LAURA: Oh, that's really smart. It's very
meaningful.
MATT: Orly chuckles under his breath. It's very
well done, and you can see now the other tattoos
that are across his body were probably done by him
on himself.
LAURA: Hey, Orly, I'm training to be a carpenter,
did you know?
MATT: "I wasn't aware, actually, but m-m-maybe you
should ask around for the man who's doing the
"repairs around this place."
LAURA: Yeah, I will definitely do that, but I also
want to learn how to do tattoos. Can you teach me that?
MATT: "I can try and teach you some of--"
LAURA: I'm a really good artist, Orly.
MATT: "-- m-m-my skills. However, I got a specific
talent with some of this here."
LAURA: Yeah, it's a thing that you wrap around
your fingers and then you go like this?
MATT: "Kind of. Here, do you m-m-mind?" The guy's
like, "Uh."
LAURA: I'm a really good artist, don't worry.
MATT: "Sure?" Orly helps show you how he threads
this and gets the needle set up. Go ahead and make
a performance check.
TRAVIS: Oh god.
LIAM: Oh jeez.
MARISHA: Performance?
LAURA: Performance. Oh no, performance!
MATT: We'll say dexterity, if you really want to.
LAURA: Yeah, I'll do dexterity. Oh, 17!
MATT: 17. Picking up where the initial partial ink
sketches were, you actually continue to fill in
the rest of the upper torso. You do a very good
job. You can see where the style does shift in the
art, but it's not abrasive, it just continues, and
it is rather nice.
LAURA: Do you think maybe your mermaid would want
some googly eyes?
MATT: He goes, "Um, no. I appreciate that, but
no."
LAURA: Are you sure? I think it'd really make her
look really good.
MATT: He starts to pull his arm away from you.
Orly puts his giant tortle hand on your shoulder
and goes, "I don't recommend m-m-messing with the
artistic vision."
LAURA: I understand. I don't want people messing
with my artistic vision, either.
MATT: "There you are."
LAURA: You and me, Orly. We're going to be fast
friends.
MATT: "I like the idea of that. Point of order--"
LAURA: Did you say "porn of order?"
MATT: "Point of order."
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: "You don't happen to have any sort of gem
dust, do you?"
LAURA: Gem dust. Like a gem that's been powdered?
MATT: "Yeah."
LAURA: Or like ink?
MATT: "Oh, I have plenty of ink. It's m-m-more--"
LAURA: Wait, are you trying to make a sparkly
ink?
MATT: "M-m-more or less."
LAURA: I mean, I don't have any powdered gems, but
I could probably powder some gems.
MATT: "I picked up this technique years ago from
some of the individuals that spawned from the
"legacy of the island folk. It allows me to instill
a m-m-mighty ink spot." As he does that, he flexes
his arm and the tattoo shimmies every so slightly
and his muscles bulge a bit.
LAURA: Oh my god. Will you teach me how to do that
if I give you some dust?
MATT: "See, it's not so much something that can be
easily taught; more that it's something bequeathed
"by an elder."
LAURA: Do you want to bequeath me?
MATT: "No."
LAURA: What if you really like me, though?
MATT: "We'll see how time goes by. For the time
being, just let me know if I can be of service."
He talks to you about it and he gives you an
overview of his capabilities. For different types
of gem dust, he can imbue somebody with a series
of tattoos that can alter elements of their
physical self. It's not inexpensive, and each
person can only have it once ever, so it's not
like you can have multiple. For 2,200 gold worth
of a ruby dust he can imbue a permanent +1 to strength.
TRAVIS: What?
(exclamations)
MATT: For 2,200 gold worth of emerald dust he can
do a permanent +1 to dex. He runs down the stat
sheet there. The most expensive one's
constitution; that's 2,500 worth of diamond dust.
There are all the different gem types there. He
can also imbue certain resistances. Those are more
expensive, those are 5,000 gold worth of fire opal
dust for fire resist and 5,000 gold worth of black
sapphire dust for cold resist. He has the
capability of imbuing essentially magical,
permanent tattoos.
LAURA: That is amazing.
MARISHA: I have a jeweler's kit. (pigeon cooing)
LAURA: Oh my gosh.
MARISHA: Beau made jewelry. (pigeon cooing)
TRAVIS: That's a shit-load of jewels.
MATT: Yeah, that's something.
LAURA: That's a lot of jewels.
SAM: We have some, though.
LAURA: Yeah, we have some.
TALIESIN: Some stuff that we don't want to get rid
of.
LAURA: Yeah.
MARISHA: I want some magic tattoos!
LAURA: Oh my gosh, do they shimmer, though, do
look sparkly on your body, do they look shiny?
MATT: You can see aspects of, based on what
enchantment it is-- like on Orly, his is
specifically an aquamarine dust. It has this
faint, aquamarine, light blue shimmy to it; as
soon as the light hits it, it glitters across.
LAURA: (gasping)
TRAVIS: Oh, fuck.
MATT: Aquamarine dust being the one that boosts
charisma.
LAURA: Orly, you're so charismatic.
MATT: "(laughs) M-m-many folk have said that."
LAURA: I would definitely want to learn this from
you, and I probably, once I get a little more rich
and I have some powdered gems, I'm going to have
you do it to me.
MATT: "Well, looks like you're just going to have
to keep me employed for quite a while."
LAURA: Yeah, don't get hurt, okay?
MATT: "Don't get me hurt." He goes back to
finishing up the tattoo on the individual.
LAURA: Okay, what was the guy's name that was
getting a tattoo?
MATT: That was Waldok.
LAURA: Waldok. Well, Waldok, I'll see you later.
MATT: "(grunts) Okay."
LAURA: I'm going to go carpenter some stuff.
MATT: All right.
MARISHA: Holy shit.
MATT: Roughly eight days into this journey, you've
moved about 100 miles off the shore of the
southern island of Bwuali when a small horn sound
goes off on the Squalleater. (horn call) It's a
small horn. It's a very small horn.
LAURA: I had a flashback.
MATT: I know. This wasn't meant to be an epic horn
that I totally failed on. This is intentionally a
small horn. Glancing at the top, you can see
Avantika has climbed to the center of the mainmast
and towards one of the crow's nests up top, and,
looking down, points to you, Fjord, and goes,
"Quartermaster, call two of your compatriots that
you trust to the top with me."
TRAVIS: Will do! Jester, Deuce.
TALIESIN: Yeah?
TRAVIS: Up top.
TALIESIN: Oh, yeah, I like it up there.
MATT: You guys climb up the mainmast to the crow's
nest, and there you see Avantika with a spyglass,
and she leans in to the three of you, directing
mainly towards Fjord, and goes, "Now that we are
at sea, I want to show you something." She pulls
out the spyglass and holds it over to you and
helps you point it in the direction. Here you see
a vessel, a little ways off on the horizon. A
little bit north of where you are, a northwestward
direction. She whispers over your shoulder so the
rest of you can hear. "Glancing at this ship ahead
of us, it appears to be a Concord ship. A shipping
vessel probably carrying trade goods. It appears
to be equipped for rapid travel, but we could head
it off. As my quartermaster, I ask you for your
opinion. What should we do?"
TRAVIS: Well, I'm sure it's a ship of innocents.
We don't want to stray from our path, correct?
MATT: "Take a look. What do you see?"
TRAVIS: I'll use the spyglass.
MATT: Make a perception check.
SAM: They're torturing orphans on the deck.
TRAVIS: 20.
MATT: Okay. Glancing at it, it's a pretty well
made ship. It's meant for speed. It doesn't appear
to be heavily manned. It's not carrying or
transporting people. It doesn't seem to be a
transport ship of any means. You see a handful of
small sailors on board with a hand crossbow or a
saber that's sheathed at the side. You see on the
deck a handful of crates that were not kept
beneath, which means it's probably pretty
well-packed. It does appear to be Concord colors.
Since it's traveling southward, you gather it's
probably recently finished-- especially with your
experience as a sailor-- finished stocking up on
all its materials, travel supplies and its goods.
Based on the path it's heading southward, it's
either going to arc around to Tal'Dorei or be
heading in the direction of Marquet or possibly,
if it's feeling risky, the Shattered Teeth.
TRAVIS: Captain, are you in a habit of
intercepting said vessels in your time at sea?
MATT: "Depends if we can do so quickly without
losing any sort of momentum, perhaps? Not all
"ships are boarded and there is a loss of life.
Most, I'd say probably 80 percent of encounters
"out here, is just intimidation. Most let us take
what we want and continue on our way. They don't
"want to die."
TRAVIS: It's important that you know in my
previous life I had encounters with pirating
vessels as well and most of those experiences I
did not enjoy.
MATT: "Well, to be fair, there are plenty of
assholes on these waters, so it does not surprise
"me. But it is your choice, I say. You may talk
amongst your friends, but there is opportunity."
TRAVIS: You say no need for a loss of life?
MATT: "Not unless they-- how do you say-- they are
stupid?"
TRAVIS: Or stubborn.
MATT: "Either or."
TRAVIS: Well, my fellow boatswain and navigators
to be? Nope? Boatswain and carpenter? Yeah.
LAURA: I'm a carpenter, Fjord. I'm learning to be
a carpenter.
TRAVIS: Okay, carpenter and--
LAURA: And a really good tattoo artist.
TRAVIS: What are you?
TALIESIN: A boatswain.
TRAVIS: Oh, well, I had that completely fucking
backwards.
I take real good notes. What
say you on such a dangerous expedition as this?
TALIESIN: May I?
TRAVIS: Oh yes, of course.
TALIESIN: I'm going to take a look at this thing.
MATT: Make a perception check.
TALIESIN: 22.
MATT: Okay. You make out the same details as he
does. Nothing catches your attention. Nothing
about it seems out of the ordinary per se, but it
does seem to be a vessel that is filled with its
payload and making its way south.
LAURA: Let me see!
MATT: Make a perception check.
LAURA: Only because I would totally do it if they
were both looking and I rolled like shit. I think
there's a ship!
TRAVIS: You're not wrong.
TALIESIN: Obviously the decision is yours, but we
are low on supplies which means we have more to
lose. If something goes wrong, we lose vital
members of our crew or burn through magic ability.
We're going to be without food whereas I'm sure
they're probably very well stocked and prepared
for these sorts of eventualities. I feel like we
would be coming in from a place of weakness.
That's my initial thought.
TRAVIS: Jester?
LAURA: Oh man, I don't know. I'd be okay with it,
I guess.
TRAVIS: You're up for a scrap on the seas?
LAURA: Well, it doesn't have to be a scrap like
Avantika said. It could be, you know, go in and
take stuff but maybe we could also give them
something!
TRAVIS: What would we give them?
LAURA: I don't know, like new names or pretty
drawings?
TALIESIN: Fine art.
LAURA: Yeah, we could just make it a fun time for
them.
MATT: "An aggressive trade. Interesting."
TRAVIS: Very well.
MATT: "What is your decision?"
TRAVIS: As long as we abstain as well as we can
from violence and as long as your men in the crew
understand my disgust at such tactics, I think we
can make our way towards an intercept.
MATT: You watch as this playful look on her face
as she watches this discourse turns into this
extremely intense, Joker-like grin and she goes
"Well then, welcome to piracy my friends. Come."
She jumps off the side and heads the ropes down
and begins shouting off commands to people on the ship.
TALIESIN: I think that escalated rather quickly.
LAURA: She made me question what we just did. I
thought it was one thing and then her face made me
think it's a whole other thing.
TRAVIS: Well, you said we need supplies right?
TALIESIN: Well, I said that we were in a position
of disadvantage.
TRAVIS: I felt like your words were different
before. Listen, we're going to not use violence
all right? I'm not--
MATT: The sails shift as the ropes are being
pulled--
TRAVIS: Do me a favor. Spread the word amongst the
rest of us and make sure the rest of the crew
hears as well. I don't want innocent blood shed if
it can be helped.
LAURA: I mean, whatever, Fjord. I guess we can do
that if you want to. I don't care.
TRAVIS: Thank you, Jester.
LAURA: I'm already down. I'm not there anymore.
MATT: All right.
TALIESIN: I feel like this is somehow connected to
your previous bad decisions.
MARISHA: Aw shit.
TRAVIS: Nope. Is the big ogre--
MATT: Bouldergut?
TRAVIS: Yes, that name.
MATT: Yes, Bouldergut is on this ship. She has
been moved from The Mistake partially because
Bouldergut acts as a bodyguard to Avantika and
because the other ship itself is in serious need
of repairs. They assume probably don't put the
giant heavy ogre on it.
TRAVIS: Can I find Bouldergut?
MATT: Sure enough. Bouldergut is down there
currently getting ready with a giant great club
that is carved from an older masthead.
TRAVIS: Bouldergut?
MATT: "What?"
TRAVIS: I'm sure that is just for show, yes?
MATT: "Right. For show."
TRAVIS: It's important you understand I have an
agreement with the captain. No unnecessary
bloodshed. You will make sure that the rest of the
men know this.
MATT: She looks back and Avantika goes, "Oh don't
worry. You are the quartermaster. You are the one
"who is to be boarding any sort of ships that we
encounter so you choose your people."
TRAVIS: (uncertain noises) I know. Making sure you
know. That is all.
TALIESIN: In my imagination that felt vaguely like
a threat.
MATT: At this point you watch as Ipess, who is the
second mate of the ship, this sunburned gnome
begins scurrying up the rope to go ahead and put
their flag on display. Ipess. I-P-E-S-S.
TALIESIN: What does the flag look like?
MATT: The flag on this is a dull gray purple color
and it has a similar sketch of the same eye tattoo
that Avantika has on her chest.
TALIESIN: All right.
MATT: As that goes up and the ship begins to move
to intercept, glancing through the eyeglass in the
distance you can see the other ship noticing the
approach and there is now a bunch of chaos as they
all begin running up and down the ship notifying
everybody else on there. What are you doing to
prepare, guys?
TRAVIS: I'm running to find Nott, our master
gunner-in-training. I'll say: Nott? I need you to
keep an eye on those guns we're not looking--
SAM: (shouting) All right you motherfuckers! I
need hollow charges loaded! I need extra fuses on
every motherfucking cannon! Get me hollow shells
loaded with extra charges. I want four cannonballs
on every cannon! Move!
TRAVIS: Nott! Nott! Oh my god! Look. Again, we're not
looking to sink this ship, okay? We're going to
try and board, get what we need and let them go. I
don't want unnecessary violence.
MARISHA: I run in with a keg of black powder that
I've been building. (shouting) Are we fighting?!
SAM: (shouting) Yeah!
MARISHA: (shouting) Is this a fight?
SAM: (shouting) Light them up! Load them up! Put
the charges at the ready!
MARISHA: (shouting) Who's trying to punk our ass?
SAM: (shouting) Short fuses!
MARISHA: Okay!
MATT: The angry, tough red-bearded dwarf that
actually acts as the cannon master of the ship
that goes by the name of Ophiscan Duth. "I'm
interested in possibly getting involved, but this
is too much fun to watch. Keep going, goblin, I'm
liking it."
SAM: (shouting) If you're not going to help stand
out of my way!
MARISHA: All right, I've got five pounders, eight
pounders, 12 pounders, short fuses and a 20 pound keg.
MATT: Two of the other deckhands who act as powder
monkeys are also helping get things organized.
MARISHA: What are we doing? What's going on?
TRAVIS: We're doing great. Beau, you're going to
join me as we pull alongside the ship.
MARISHA: Okay!
TRAVIS: You're part of the boarding party. Go up
above.
MARISHA: Okay.
TRAVIS: Nott? I pull Nott close and I say: If you
fucking fire on that ship before they fire on us
you will never get into the Academy. Do you
understand?
SAM: The Academy?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MARISHA: So we're not fighting?
TRAVIS: The letter that I have that grants me
access?
SAM: Oh.
TRAVIS: If you want that for Caleb--
SAM: Oh, I see.
TRAVIS: So act real tough and yell real loud.
Don't fire on them unless they fire on us, you understand?
MATT: "Though I would recommend if you're going to
fire do a warning shot. Tends to get them a bit
"spooked in their boots and slowing down."
SAM: So a warning shot's okay?
MATT: "Across the bow, not at the ship. In front
of it, away from it but just enough to show a
"little bit of power."
SAM: To me it seems like the closer the more
intimidating. Right?
MATT: "There's a bit of a range of error with
these weapons. They're not a perfect art."
SAM: So "don't fire at them?"
TRAVIS: As long as you don't hit the ship.
SAM: All right.
TRAVIS: I'm sure you'll--
SAM: (shouting) Come on you, motherfuckers! Get
ready to fire!
MATT: At this point, the sails are fully unfurled.
Speed is picking up. The other ship was trying to
gain speed, and it is a very fast ship, but as it
tries to move away it ends up putting you at a
parallel pace. At which point, the master gunner
leans into you and goes "Ahem. About now would be
"fine, I think."
SAM: To fire?
MATT: "We want them to slow down, eh?"
SAM: All right. I'm so excited. I'm just going to
take a swig.
MATT: He gets behind you and-- not quite like
making the vase in Ghost, but is trying to help
show you exactly how to set things up and get the
cannon ready and aim it.
SAM: Are you with us?
TRAVIS: I'm going to leave you to it. I'm going
back upstairs.
SAM: Okay I'll cast a quick Message and say: Fjord
I'm about to fire my warning shot. Good to go? You
can respond to this message.
TRAVIS: At your will, yeah.
SAM: All right. I will light the fuse? I don't
know how you do it.
TALIESIN: Powder, ball, make ready, fire.
MATT: Powder, place the shot, put the fuse in, aim
then fire.
SAM: Okay. Do I have to roll for this?
MATT: Yeah. Go ahead and make an intelligence
check.
SAM: Okay, that's a natural one.
LAURA: Oh no.
TALIESIN: I'm so excited!
LIAM: What the fuck.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: Ready! Aim!
TRAVIS: The cannon goes (creaking).
MATT: You light the fuse.
SAM: Fire!
MATT: (sizzling)
SAM: What happened? What's going on?
MATT: "What order did you put them in?"
SAM: I put the fuse in first and then I put the
powder in and then one of the balls? Is that right?
MATT: "I don't think that's how--"
SAM: Maybe I did them--
MATT: "I think you fucked it up."
SAM: I think I did the ball first and then the
powder.
MATT: "I think that's-- right, we're going to have
to clean that cannon."
SAM: Shit!
MATT: "You're going to have to clean that
cannon."
SAM: Let's go to another cannon!
MATT: "All right, we'll move over to this one." So
you begin setting up the other cannon.
SAM: Uh-huh.
MATT: So you put the powder first, put the ball,
get the-- (explosion) The other cannon goes off.
TALIESIN: At least you weren't looking in it.
MATT: There's a shaking sound with splintering
wood and a bit of smoke in the vicinity. You
glance over and that cannon is fucked.
LAURA: I come running in. Do I need to fix a
hole?
SAM: It's not wood, but sure.
LIAM: Caleb runs up from under the deck with
sulfur in one hand and bat shit in the other one.
What is going on? What is this?
SAM: Sorry!
LIAM: What are we doing?
SAM: Technical difficulties.
MARISHA: Can somebody please tell us what the fuck
is going on?
TALIESIN: We are apparently committing an act of
piracy.
MATT: At this point Ophiscan sees this and knowing
your skill set goes, "Go back upstairs. There's a
"lot of powder in this room."
LIAM: Aren't we--oh. Oh!
MATT: "Upstairs."
LIAM: You're good?
MATT: "Fireboy. Go. Go get."
SAM: I was born to do this.
MATT: "All right, so you owe us a cannon. Try
again."
LAURA: I use the cantrip Mending.
MATT: We'll see if that would help a destroyed
cannon.
LAURA: Probably not.
MATT: That's a lot of material.
LIAM: I could fix it.
MATT: A single break or tear-- no. That cannon's
fucked.
LAURA: One little thing goes (squeaking).
MATT: All right, try it again. The DC is lower
this time because now you've fucked up.
SAM: I've got this. Are they getting away?
MATT: You've managed to head them off. They're
managing to get speed and they're curving this way
and you guys are curving to meet them.
TRAVIS: They're curving fast because there was a
detonation.
MATT: Yeah.
SAM: Okay, that's better. Intelligence check, 20.
Couldn't be more different.
MATT: Without issue this time, proper order with a
rapid pace. Halfway through, Ophiscan's like, "Eh, sorry."
SAM: Hey, back off old man.
MATT: You set it, light the fuse. (explosion) The
whole thing lurches back about two feet and
there's a large wooden platform that catches it
from the impact. The room shakes for a second and
you glance through the little side of the gunport
and you watch it hit the water maybe about 40 feet
out from the front of the other ship. You hear
shouting from the other ship and you watch as it
starts to slow and come to a slower crawl. It
begins to give up its chase.
SAM: I cast Message. Fjord, mission accomplished.
Board at will! You can respond to this message.
TRAVIS: Well done, Nott.
LAURA: Oh my gosh.
SAM: Oh boy.
MATT: This is more for just a visual perspective.
MARISHA: Just for visuals.
SAM: You guys, if you live in the UK, you're going
to get some faster, cheaper shipping.
MARISHA: Way cheaper.
SAM: Of the art book.
MARISHA: Uh-huh. Because books are heavy.
SAM: Which going to be available what day?
LAURA: Monday at nine.
SAM: This is exciting, but also D&amp;D Beyond.
LAURA: Whoa, Matthew Mercer! So cool!
SAM: You made those?
MATT: Well no, this was sent to me by fans of the
show who actually make these, and then this I had
custom made a while back in case this ever came
around.
SAM: Does this ship have a grid printed on it or
carved into it?
MATT: Yeah, lasered in. Just to give you
perspective, as you guys pull up from the side of
this, eventually the two ships are brought in,
anchor is dropped.
LAURA: Which one is ours?
MATT: This is yours, here. This is the
Squalleater. On the opposite end, the crew has all
moved up to the deck. They have weapons at the
ready, but not necessarily ready to fire. They're
in the process of realizing they don't have much
recourse at this moment. The rest of Avantika's
crew, or at least a number of them, have come up
on the deck in support. But you're the one who's
helming this. What do you do?
TRAVIS: I look over at Caleb. Caleb, have you any
desire to intimidate some folks?
LIAM: Do you need that? Yeah, okay.
TALIESIN: Do we have a name of this ship?
TRAVIS: Beau's going with.
MATT: The Squalleater. Oh their ship?
LIAM: She is intimidating.
LAURA: Hey Fjord? You know, sometimes you can be
nice to people, too. And make them think that they
are friends.
TRAVIS: Yeah, I don't know. That's not where I'm
going. Beau?
MARISHA: Yeah?
TRAVIS: Team up with Bouldergut. I want you to go
on the opposite ship and find me the captain.
MARISHA: Okay.
TRAVIS: Can I see how many men, now that we're
close, how many are above deck?
MATT: Yes. To give you kind of a brief perspective
here, what you see on deck, off to the side. Those
are the people you see. Some of them appear to be
deckhands and aren't armed aside from a small
shortsword on their side. A couple of them appear
to be a little better dressed, but none of them
are warriors. They don't appear to have a very
visible guard on the deck of the ship.
TRAVIS: Okay. Sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt.
MATT: No, go ahead.
TRAVIS: I'm coming with you, just keep an eye out
and make sure no one is doing any shifty biz.
MARISHA: And you want no violence here
whatsoever?
TRAVIS: Not unless-- Rules of engagement apply. Do
not fire or attack unless fired upon.
TALIESIN: Do you want me to make an announcement,
maybe?
TRAVIS: Yes.
TALIESIN: Thaumaturgy, I'm going to project my
voice very loudly onto the other ship.
MATT: Okay.
TALIESIN: Fellow friends at sea, we wish to have a
parlay with your captain and we hope to keep this
entire confrontation as bloodless and reasonable
as humanly possible. We will do our best to be
civil and not encourage anything inappropriate
over the next several minutes. We would appreciate
your cooperation in this direction. Then I'm going
to try and make all the doors open and available
to us from the other ship with Thaumaturgy as
well. I'm going to pop all their doors open.
MATT: Soon as that sentence comes to an end, you
hear a rapid clattering of heavy wood against
wood. It's all of the various ports and doors in
the interior of the ship all manage to slam open
at once. All the members on the opposite side look
at each other. Make an intimidation check.
TALIESIN: What number is that? I have a number in
that, let's see what it does. That's a 22.
MATT: A 22?! They all look at each other and begin
to back even further away from the edge. One of
them rushes down and goes deeper into the ship and
a moment later returns with one figure which
appears to be better dressed than the others. You
see very bright blonde hair and a relatively
well-dressed leather tunic over decent captain's
clothing. He comes to the front and goes, "I am
"the captain of The Stormcap. Who am I to be
parlaying with?"
TRAVIS: I'll step forward and reach for gloves
that aren't there and not do that. My name is
Fjord. I'm a representative of The Squalleater
here. If you will but humor us for a few moments,
I'm afraid we're very short on supplies. We need
to replenish our stores and perhaps enrich our
pockets. If your men behave, I'm sure we will all
get out of this very little worse for wear.
MATT: "I am Captain Jules Errog of The Stormcap,
and I would very much like the lives of my men
"spared. What supplies do you need? Perhaps there
can be a trade organized."
TRAVIS: Indeed. Deuce, food? Water?
TALIESIN: Definitely food and water. We are also
in the need of some gems if possible. I'll also
say that if they require any healing at all, for
anybody that might be sickly on the ship. I'd be
happy to offer my services.
TRAVIS: Oh indeed yes, the well being of your men
obviously, was something that we would easily tend to.
MATT: His expression gets really confused. It's
like, "Okay?"
MARISHA: What's Captain Avantika doing right now?
MATT: Avantika is on the other ship just leaning
against the opposite side watching this happen,
just keeping an eye on everything.
TRAVIS: Now in exchange for our good will in this
interaction, I'm sure you won't mind if we peruse
below decks and see if there is anything of
interest.
MATT: Looks across to the rest of his men, looks
over towards you again.
TALIESIN: I'm, by the way, human looking right
now.
MATT: Okay.
TALIESIN: Smeed.
MATT: The intimidating Thaumaturgy-casting Smeed.
"Okay. Do as you will."
TRAVIS: Fantastic. Bouldergut! I'll call the ogre
up to just board their ship and stay on the
gangplank between ours and theirs.
MATT: Bouldergut takes a step towards the
gangplank and goes "Grrr." Looks over at Avantika
who shouts, "Perhaps not having her on the plank
is a good idea?"
TRAVIS: Oh no, I'm sorry, on their ship, on that
side of the gangplank.
MATT: Bouldergut backs up and does a running jump
and hits the other side and you watch the ship
shift in the water from the impact and the weight
of this ogre. So now you have that.
TRAVIS: Our friend here is going to play chaperone
and ensure everyone stays nice and happy up here.
Beau, would you mind coming with me?
MARISHA: Yeah, absolutely.
TALIESIN: Let us know if you need anything.
TRAVIS: Will do. Again, I must emphasize, no
tricky business. We're in good moods. It would be
smart to keep it that way.
LIAM: I fire off a Fire Bolt straight up into the
sky in an arc over and let it land in the ocean.
MATT: A Fire Bolt?
LIAM: Yeah, a Fire Bolt. You don't want us to be
unhappy.
MATT: Make an intimidation check.
LIAM: 11.
MATT: Okay. The captain thinks to himself and
nods. He turns and steps aside from the doorway
that he's been standing in.
TRAVIS: I motion to a third so it's not just Beau
and myself. One of the other crew members of The
Squalleater to come with us downstairs.
MATT: Okay. At your disposal right there would
probably be Vera, who is the previous
quartermaster, but she is a bit older, not quite
geriatric, but is in her older years.
SAM: (cooing) Yasha!
MARISHA: We're trying to go with Squalleater
people. Waldok?
TRAVIS: Vera, Ipess?
MARISHA: Ipess or Waldok?
MATT: Vera, Ipess, or Norgul. Vera Norgul is her
name. Who are you calling?
TRAVIS: Yeah, let's have Ipess come.
MATT: A giant bushy bearded gnome comes by and he
has his shortsword drawn. "All right. Let's do it.
Lead on!" The three of you make it across the
gangplanks and now the group is four of you
including Bouldergut. The large opening that leads
down into the ship, the rest--
MARISHA: Where is the captain's quarters?
MATT: The captain's quarters is underneath in the
back.
MARISHA: Be right back. I'm going to go into the
captain's quarters.
MATT: Okay. As you head down, almost everybody
who's on the ship is up top. You see a few figures
that are deckhands cowering in rooms. They're
scared shitless and when you begin walk past you
hear (shushing). They're trying to stay quiet.
You're in the captain's quarters. What are you doing?
MARISHA: I'm looking for any type of important
paperwork, correspondence, what these guys are,
traveling logs.
MATT: Make an investigation check.
LIAM: Also, when you are down there, you hear in
the back of your skull: Books!
MARISHA: And books! Frumpkin, what are you doing?
I put Frumpkin on my shoulder. I rolled a natural
19, so 24.
MATT: A number of shipping ledgers. There are
books keeping tabs on payments to the crew and how
long they've been hired. There is one paper you do
find that is hidden in a locked compartment
beneath, but you manage to find underneath this
little bit that you can slip your fingers through,
and pull a sheet of paper out on the opposite end
of the shelf. This is a list of the supplies on
the ship.
MARISHA: Anything of interest?
MATT: There is food and water for the journey.
There are Clovis Concord spices, Menagerie Coast
specialty dried meats, tropical fruits that are
specifically frozen and brought so they're slowly
thawing through the journey to get them as fresh
as they can where they're going. This looks like
this journey was intended to go to Marquet, to
Port Damali, The Bay of Gifts. Amongst all the
various bits of general supplies, cloths,
clothing, and silks that are specific to the
Menagerie Coast, there are some elements of Empire
goods as well that are put in there. But the thing
that catches your interest: there is one last
addition. Everything else seems to be written in
one type of handwriting, and there is a different
type of handwriting in the final entry, and the
final entry says, "Requested package: guarded,"
and the amount that was paid for that was 1,800
gold. That was received by the captain on this
ledger to keep on the down low.
MARISHA: I'm going to immediately look around. Do
I see any of the safes where you would hide a
guarded package in here?
MATT: In here? You do not, not within this
chamber.
MARISHA: All right. I go meet Fjord and Norgul.
Nope! Ipess. That's who's with us, I go meet them.
MATT: Okay. While you're looking, are you waiting
for Beau or are you heading out?
TRAVIS: Yeah, we go together.
MATT: Beau joins up with you guys.
TRAVIS: What'd you find?
MARISHA: Oh, an entire inventory of the ship. That
looks interesting!
TRAVIS: Oh, yes, indeed it does.
MARISHA: Who wants to ask about that?
TRAVIS: Oh, I believe I will.
MATT: Actually, as high your investigation check
was, and you continued investigation into the room
in search of any sort of thing, you do not find
this package, but you do find underneath under the
small, tossed, somewhat mildewed rugs that mark
the floor, there is a section of floorboard that
pulls open, and there is a small chest that is
locked. When you pull and shake it a bit, it's
filled with quite a bit of coin.
MARISHA: I grab the whole chest. Is it heavy?
MATT: It's pretty heavy.
MARISHA: I grab the whole chest. (grunting)
TRAVIS: Nice! First room!
MARISHA: Yeah, that's pretty good. Feel pretty
proud of that.
TRAVIS: Yeah, that's real good.
MARISHA: Do you think this is the shipment? Think
this is that? Would I deduce this is that, or no?
MATT: As you are moving and shifting it, it sounds
like it's filled with a lot of coin.
MARISHA: There's a different package here.
TRAVIS: Well, I'm going to find out one way. I'll
call over Bouldergut. Bouldergut, do me a favor
and lob this over onto the other ship, would you?
MATT: Bouldergut grabs it with one hand and walks
over. As Bouldergut makes her way onto the deck,
you can see the captain notice it and sigh
loudly.
TRAVIS: I know, Captain. I hate to be more of an
inconvenience than this already is, and I want to
get The Stormcap on its way as quickly as
possible. Would you do me a favor and have all of
your men come down here and assemble at the bow of
the ship, please? This is getting too interesting
and I can't have you spread out all over the
place.
MATT: "Men, please, to the bow of the ship." They
all begin to shift and make their way that
direction. As the captain begins to move, goes,
"All I ask, please, is leave enough supplies for
us to make our journey."
TRAVIS: But of course, Captain. What are we,
monsters?
MATT: Does not break eye contact with you and
gives you a serious dark glare.
LIAM: I start lobbing Fire Bolts into the sea like
I'm skipping stones every ten or 15 seconds.
MATT: It certainly keeps the other side nervous.
LAURA: I'm waving at them. Hi.
TRAVIS: We'll make our way below deck to see what
we can see.
MATT: You go past into the cargo hold, which is
below here. On the level where the captain's
quarters are and just below, there's the rest of
the cabin quarters for the rest of the crew, and
then below that is the cargo hold. As you make
your way past the various hiding other members of
the deckhand crew, down in the lower cargo hold,
there are a series of crates and barrels that
contain all the supplies that were on the ledger,
you would assume, all the different trade materials.
TRAVIS: I'll peek my head into one of those rooms
where the crew is hiding. I'll say: You, you, and
you. Get your ass up. I want these crates taken
above deck and put on our ship. Do it quickly, do
it quietly.
MATT: "Which ones?"
TRAVIS: I'll point out the ones with the food,
some of the water and some of those frozen fruits
as well for scurvy needs.
MATT: "Okay." They're all trying to keep a
distance from you, scurry down and begin lifting
things, at which point a voice below goes, "What's
going on?" and they go, "Shh." They begin to move
things back up to the top.
TRAVIS: I'll grab one of them before they-- I
heard that.
MARISHA: I crack my knuckles behind Fjord.
TRAVIS: You know, if you were on the sea long
enough, you would know that I'm the type that only
asks a question once. Who else is down here?
MATT: Make an intimidation check.
TRAVIS: 23.
MATT: Eyes wide, the pupils gyrating in a very
quick, shaking motion. "I don't his name. He came
"with one of the pieces of cargo. He just stays
down there."
TRAVIS: That would be it. You can go on.
MATT: (panting) and continues to grab and pull the
crates up.
SAM: I'm going to cast Message. Fjord, we are
reloaded and ready to fire. If you want me to
fire, literally reply with any word. You can reply
to this message. Fuck.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Don't get greedy.
TRAVIS: Well, I don't feel like we need
reinforcements for this, right?
MARISHA: I feel deeply capable, but I feel deeply
capable.
TRAVIS: Yasha?
MARISHA: Yo, Yasha!
MATT: From across the other side--
MARISHA: Oh sorry. (shouting) Yasha!
MATT: "Yes?"
MARISHA: Come here.
MATT: Bounds across the gangplank on the other
side. "What do you need?" She heads down to the
ship with you.
MARISHA: Think the secret package is a person.
Think there's a person, think he's the secret
package because he's on this ledger and it's
different handwriting. Anyway, let's go find the person.
TRAVIS: Yeah, we'll make our way further into the
hold and try to find the source of the voice.
TALIESIN: Just because everyone's on the deck, I'm
going to do a quick Detect Magic and scan the boat.
MATT: The whole boat?
TALIESIN: Everybody in the boat.
LAURA: While he's doing that, I'm going to say: I
need a volunteer!
SAM: From the other crew?
TALIESIN: I will also say I'm going to take it and
that chest they just threw out as well.
MATT: Okay. The chest does not emit a magical
presence. In order to really check the other ship,
you have to go across onto its bow and scan and
walk across it. It's a 30-foot.
TALIESIN: It's 30-foot. Okay, at the very least,
I'm going to get close and walk the-- Oh, yeah.
MATT: Okay. As you begin to make your way over
towards the bow, concentrating on the spell, a
tiny little magic source below you, deep in the
ship, catches your attention.
LAURA: In the other ship?
MATT: In the other ship, yes.
TALIESIN: There's something magic down below.
MATT: While this is happening--
SAM: I say that all the time to my lady friends,
by the way.
MATT: You guys head down into the cargo hold.
MARISHA: Super on edge and guarded.
MATT: Make a perception check.
MARISHA: Darkvision goggles. Okay.
TRAVIS: I will aid you.
MARISHA: Thank you. I will take it. Oh my god, I
rolled a three and a four. Seven.
MATT: Okay, looking inside, it is lightless and
appears to be empty aside from the series of
crates and shipping containers that are in here,
other than the ones that you've had moved up to
the top. Between the three of them, they've done
two quick up-and-downs. They've brought a fair
amount of supplies so far, and they'll continue if
you tell them to.
MARISHA: I can't see shit, but I don't trust it.
TRAVIS: I can.
MARISHA: You know, maybe if I readjust. Let me
just close my eyes for a second. Okay, why don't
you try?
TRAVIS: Yeah, can I give it a better look with my
darkvision?
MATT: No, because you spent your turn helping
her.
TRAVIS: That's right, I'm helping her. Of course.
MATT: Technically it's both of you looking.
LIAM: Okay, Caduceus aired the fact that he is a
little nervous, so I place my hand on Caduceus'
shoulder and then look through Frumpkin's eyes to
see what's going on.
TALIESIN: I'm getting a little bit of magic down
there, I don't know what it is, but it's making me nervous.
MATT: Okay. Looking through Frumpkin's eyes, make
a perception check.
LIAM: Oh, I wasn't trying to do a perception
check. I'm not searching for anything, I'm just
checking in.
MATT: You're just keeping an eye? Okay. So you're
just keeping tabs on the situation.
LIAM: That's exactly what I want to do.
LAURA: I just want to let it known that I'm asking
for a volunteer from the other crew.
TALIESIN: Oh god.
LAURA: I need a volunteer!
MATT: They all look at each other.
LAURA: It can be anyone, but there should be at
least one!
MATT: The captain steps forward and goes, "For
what?"
LAURA: For a special present! It's a treat!
MATT: Make a persuasion check.
SAM: That sounds awful.
TALIESIN: That sounds like the worst thing ever.
Oh man.
LAURA: 17.
SAM: A treat.
MATT: "Go, Lieb. That way."
LAURA: Liam?
MATT: Lieb.
LAURA: Lieb.
MATT: I know, so close. One of the deck hands
looks and he goes, "What, me?"
LAURA: Come on!
MATT: Onto The Squalleater?
LAURA: Yeah. Come sit next to me!
MATT: He comes across the gangplank over next to
you.
LAURA: I bust out the tattoo stuff that Orly's
been teaching me. I'm going to give him a tat
while all that's going on!
(laughter)
TALIESIN: This is the darkest timeline. Oh.
TRAVIS: Unmolested, except for--
TALIESIN: And that's how I got this!
LAURA: Where do you want it?
TALIESIN: I'm having bad flashbacks.
MATT: He's just like, "I-- what?"
LAURA: It'll be so good. It's going to be so
beautiful.
SAM: This poor guy!
MARISHA: You've got to test on somebody.
LAURA: Ooh, I like it! Let's get your clothes
open. While everything's going on, I'm just going
to spend--
MATT: While you're prepping, he just looks over at
the captain very mournfully, and the captain's like--
LAURA: It's just going to be one smiley line with
two tusks sticking out of it.
SAM: Oh!
TALIESIN: Vampire.
LAURA: You've been abducted-- no, by Captain
Tusktooth.
MATT: Make a dexterity check.
MARISHA: Like, you've been abducted,
congratulations.
LAURA: Ooh! 19!
MATT: So over the next ten minutes or so, you'll
be able to provide a fine tattoo of that simple design.
LAURA: Yeah, just like a smiley face, but with
tusks.
MATT: You got it. He's biting his lip (groaning).
LAURA: Just deal with it, it's going to be good.
TRAVIS: I'll make my way forward into the hold
even though we haven't seen much.
MATT: Okay. You move ahead into the hold about ten
feet or so. There's a small pathway that's built
between all the different elements of crates and
barrels, making sure that you can get to the back
of the hold.
MARISHA: Plug! Sorry.
MATT: They're not a sponsor.
MARISHA: Actually, not sponsored.
MATT: As you move around the corner, in a flash,
you hear (grunting). You see this quick arc of
steel as suddenly, from around the corner, a
fairly well-armed man with sun-darkened skin,
short hair pulled into a tight top-knot or a bun
of some kind, holding a longsword two-handed,
swings at you, three strikes. That is 24 to hit.
TRAVIS: Hits.
MATT: That is 18 to hit.
MATT: And, ooh, that is a 26 to hit.
TRAVIS: Misses.
MATT: Three hits there. That is 16 points of
slashing damage, 13 points of slashing damage,
and, oh, 18 points of slashing damage.
TRAVIS: Amazing.
LIAM: I call out up there: Captain, your
quartermaster is under attack.
LAURA: How do you know that?
MARISHA: He's looking through Frumpkin.
LAURA: Oh, cool.
MATT: Avantika listens and goes, "Ah, I trust he
can take care of himself, eh?"
TALIESIN: You want to send me down?
LIAM: We'll see.
TALIESIN: All right.
MATT: Now I need you to roll initiative, you to
roll initiative, and roll initiative for Yasha,
and I'll do for Bouldergut.
MARISHA: Oh my god, I don't know if I trust Gil.
I'm sorry, Gil, but I don't trust you. 18. I'll
take that 18.
MATT: 25 to 20? Beau, you're 18?
TRAVIS: Yasha rolled a 19.
MATT: Oh, so Yasha's up first.
TRAVIS: I rolled a six.
MATT: Okay, good to know. Yasha is up first.
Seeing this flashing of blades across Fjord, Fjord
gets knocked back, careening into some of the
nearby crates. They shift from the impact, you
hear the cracking of wood. As soon as the figure
pulls back, getting the blade into defensive
position, backing up against a corner with that
was set with a table and a chair, and this is
essentially the guarding post of this figure
below. There's a very faint bit of light in the
corner from a hooded lantern that's been faced
towards the inside of the crates so it wouldn't
give any sort of light that revealed his location.
You see him going into a defensive position.
Yasha's up first. Yasha?
TRAVIS: Does he look armored?
MATT: Armored? Yes, half-plate.
TRAVIS: With her bonus action, she will rage and
she will make two attacks with the Magician's Judge.
MATT: Go for it.
TRAVIS: That's not good. That's an 11.
MATT: 11 misses. The blade scrapes across his
armor, no impact.
TRAVIS: And a 12.
MATT: The first one scrapes across the armor,
causing a couple sparks to fly and briefly
lighting up his position. The second time he
actually pulls the longsword up and manages to
parry and cause the blade to completely miss,
impacting and getting stuck about an inch into the
wood before she draws back angrily, gritting her
teeth. That ends Yasha's turn. Beau, you're up.
MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to come up and I'm going
to parkour off of one of the crates and I'm going
to try and come down and I want to nail him in the
temple and try and do a stunning strike. First,
I'm just going to try and hit him.
MATT: All right.
MARISHA: While I'm doing this, I'm going to be
like: Frumpkin, help! Okay, 19?
MATT: 19 hits.
LIAM: I actually want to ask Frumpkin to do
something from on deck.
MATT: All right, roll initiative.
LIAM: Okay.
SAM: Does she get advantage on barrels because
she's a cooper?
MARISHA: I'm using my elbow. Fucking balls, why
does this keep happening to me? Five points of
damage on that first one, and I'm going to do a
stunning strike.
MATT: Stunning strike on him? That's a con save.
That was out of the box there.
MARISHA: It needs to be garbage.
MATT: He has a pretty decent con, but he only
rolled a 15.
MARISHA: Nope.
MATT: What's the DC?
MARISHA: 14.
MATT: 14, yeah, he saves on that one.
MARISHA: Hang on, wait. It's my proficiency bonus
plus my-- because I was afraid that I had been
fucking this up-- plus my wisdom, which is--
MATT: It's eight plus your proficiency bonus plus
your wisdom.
MARISHA: (counting) 14. Nope, it's still 14.
MATT: Yeah, so the first strike hits him across
the head, but he manages to resist it. He pulls
back (grunting), teeth gritted.
MARISHA: Pop, pop. Do it again. First hit, 20.
MATT: 20 hits. Roll damage for the second strike.
MARISHA: Bullshit damage. Six.
MATT: Six points of damage.
MARISHA: You said his con was good?
MATT: You don't know. It seemed to be pretty
decent; he rolled a 15 on that one. But you can
try it again.
MARISHA: One more time. Ki point.
MATT: Another ki point. That is a 12.
MARISHA: He's stunned!
MATT: First strike, no impact, he pulls back. He's
rearing to try and deflect, or at least keep you
at bay. The second strike, as you crack right
across the side of the head, he goes down onto one
knee. You see him, his eyes go wide as they're
rolling a little bit in his skull, and he's
currently trying to shake-- You rung his bell. You
still have your bonus action.
MARISHA: My bonus action--
MATT: With advantage, if you're--
MARISHA: Oh wait, he's stunned! Yeah, that's an 18
to hit, a natural 18. And another goddamn one! Five.
MATT: Five points of damage. He's stunned and on
his knee.
MARISHA: I'm going to look at Frumpkin again and
be like: Caleb, if you're watching, I don't trust
Avantika? That's probably all I can say.
MATT: Okay, that brings us to Bouldergut's turn.
(laughter) Bouldergut. There's not a lot of space
here, so I'm going to give her disadvantage on her
attack because she has to try and swing this large
greatclub in this enclosed space as an ogre.
Charging by, (roaring), comes down to do an
overhead strike. Actually, it would have advantage
because stunned, so it's just a regular roll. Let
me try that again. Yeah, that's a natural 14, that
hits. For that, he takes 13 points of damage on
that hit. The other attack-- 17, that hits.
Another 15 points of damage. Nice. As he's on one
knee, Bouldergut comes around and she slams. He
almost falls to the ground again. The giant impact
slamming into the back of the metal-- You can see
that actual armor dented inward from the impact.
She pulls up for a second strike down on top. This
one actually sends him down on the ground. He's
trying to get back up from that impact. The back
of the armor is pushed in. It's limited some of
his mobility within his shoulder blades from the
way the metal's pushed towards his upper shoulder.
That's going to end Bouldergut's turn. It's now
Frumpkin's go.
LIAM: Frumpkin is going to fly over towards this
gentleman and try to, with talons, rake across his
head. With advantage because he's stunned, yeah?
That's a 15 or an 18.
MATT: 18 hits.
LIAM: I cast Vampiric Touch through Frumpkin's
touch, and he takes 3d6 necrotic damage.
SAM: Frumpkin can attack?
LIAM: Through me. Me through her. Him. Damn it.
That is eight points of necrotic damage to him.
TRAVIS: You can wifi suck HP out of somebody like
that?
LIAM: Mm-hmm.
TRAVIS: Yeah!
MARISHA: I just turn to Fjord and go: Frumpkin
listens to my commands!
MATT: That ends Frumpkin's go. Fjord, you're up.
TRAVIS: I will stand up after having getting the
holy fucking shit knocked out of me from those
longsword shots, and say: Friend! You better be
real sure this is something you want to die for. I
would suggest you drop your sword. You're
outnumbered. I will take a step back.
MARISHA: Nice.
MATT: Make an intimidation check. Because he's
stunned and beat to shit, I'll give you advantage on it.
TRAVIS: First one was a 24.
MATT: Okay, that ends your turn. Yasha's up.
TRAVIS: Yasha will walk up and attempt to grapple
him into a bear hug.
MATT: Okay, make an athletics check for her with
advantage because she's raging.
TRAVIS: 21.
MATT: Okay, he fails strength and dex saving
throws. Doesn't say anything about abilities--
I'll say, yeah, she grapples him, that's fine.
Beau, you're up.
MARISHA: He's grappled?
MATT: He's currently being held by Yasha and
looking right over at Fjord, who's backed away,
hands up.
MARISHA: I'm going to say: Look, me and this guy
have been trying to be better about not hurting
people. You know, we're trying to watch out for
one another. The truth is, we want to talk to you.
We're going to get answers from you. It's your
choice if it's going to take us beating them out
of you, or if you just want to give them to us. So
I'm not going to hit you. Just know, if I feel
like you're lying to me, I'll punch the living
shit out of you, and then you're going to tell me
what I wanted to know anyway. Understood?
MATT: That's your turn?
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: Okay. It comes to his turn, he's being held
by Yasha, and he shakes off the daze. Grits his
teeth, and just throws his sword to the ground.
MARISHA: We're not murder monsters!
TRAVIS: Our dark-leaning thing goes tick.
MATT: Four points renegade, one point paragon.
Yasha's still clutching him there. Yeah.
TRAVIS: Friend. Ow! Second, we saw a little
manifest that said there was some guarded parcel
down below. I can only imagine that they were
talking about you. Now, my friend was correct. She
can punch the shit out of you. Also, we can see
how well you want to swim. Or, we can just make
sure that you're on this boat, healed up a little
bit, and sent on your way. And you can create
whatever story you want. But I do need to know
what you were protecting.
MATT: He's still being grappled by Yasha, without
saying a word. There's this look of defeat and
acceptance of one's pride. He's just trying
desperately not to engage more than he has to, and
glances over towards a crate that is across from
where he was sitting that would still be in his
visual perspective. But it's an unsuspecting crate
pushed in a cluster of others. He looks in that
direction and gives a head nudge.
MARISHA: I move to it.
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: Before I open it, I'll look at him and
go: Is there a trap in this damn thing?
LIAM: Frumpkin lands on his head.
MATT: "No."
MARISHA: If you're lying to me, I'll slit your
throat.
TRAVIS: Do I think he's lying?
MATT: Make an insight check.
TRAVIS: Eight.
MATT: Hard to read. He's a pretty grim fellow.
What did you say?
TALIESIN: I'm going to start heading downstairs to
see what the commotion is.
MATT: Okay. All right.
LAURA: Would you like googly eyes on your tattoo?
Or would you just like smiley face?
MATT: "Whatever you want. Please, just let me
go."
LAURA: Googly eyes it is. Thank you very much.
MARISHA: I open the crate very carefully.
MATT: You lift it up. Looking inside, there's a
few heavy sacks of rice or grain or sand. You
can't really tell. But they're all lining it for
weight on the crate. In the center, there's a
pillow or a piece of folded fabric that's folded
in place in the center. You pull the fabric back,
and there you see a very intricate, wooden box.
It's about maybe that big. It's about the size of
a shoebox, if you will, but it's really
well-scrolled and carved wood. Like a whittler or
a carver spent a lot of time to make it look very
beautiful and presentory.
MARISHA: I pull that out of the crate.
MATT: It has these chain handles on the sides that
dangle on the edge. It has a little latch on it,
and it's locked.
MARISHA: It's locked.
MATT: Yeah. It's pretty light.
MARISHA: Hey, Frumpkin, if you're listening, can
you have Caleb tell Nott to come down here, please?
LIAM: As soon as Caleb felt Caduceus walk away, he
dropped Frumpkin's sight because he didn't want to
be smacked in the face.
TALIESIN: Yeah, he'd pat you a couple times.
LIAM: But Frumpkin will listen to you.
MATT: The captain on the stop says something like,
"Are we done yet?"
TRAVIS: Nearly there.
MARISHA: I look at the guy. Is this trapped?
MATT: "I don't believe so."
MARISHA: What's your name?
MATT: (spitting)
TRAVIS: Oh, I really wish you hadn't done that. I
can't guarantee her reaction to that will be a
positive one.
MARISHA: I'm trying real hard right now. Like, so
hard.
TRAVIS: Yeah, you are. You've done really well.
MATT: "You've already guaranteed I lose my job and
my wage. What more can you take from me?"
TRAVIS: Are you being paid to protect this?
MATT: "I was."
TRAVIS: How much?
MATT: "150 gold upon my return."
TRAVIS: I'll give him 70 gold.
MATT: You just slip it into his pouch?
TRAVIS: I'll walk up and put it in his pouch as
Yasha's holding him.
MATT: He looks confused and untrusting, like he's
caught off-guard by it.
MARISHA: We're trying real hard, man. Like,
actively trying real hard.
MATT: "Soma."
MARISHA: Soma. See, now was that so hard? Did that
take you being fucking rude?
MATT: He just glares at you.
TRAVIS: Are you coming down under?
TALIESIN: Yeah, I probably am getting down.
MARISHA: Oh, hey, Cad! Will you go get Nott?
TRAVIS: Actually, while you're here--
TALIESIN: Whoa. Wow. Someone did a number on you.
TRAVIS: Sorry. Would you mind helping this fellow
out and giving him a little love?
TALIESIN: I might do both of you. Hi. It's a
pleasure to meet you. I get the feeling you're
having a really bad day.
MARISHA: Oh, jeez. I'll go get Nott.
TALIESIN: I'm going to do a little healing spell
down here so everyone's feeling a little better.
I'm going to start doing a little healing on both
of you. Take a few minutes while you
guys figure this out.
TRAVIS: Thank you. He rocked me. I miss raging.
TALIESIN: Prayer of Healing on both of them.
MATT: Okay, there you go. Nott, Beau catches up to
you on the other ship.
SAM: Hold!
MARISHA: Nott!
SAM: What? What is it?
MARISHA: Come here.
SAM: Stand down, men. Are there any men standing
near me?
MATT: There are two of the other powder monkeys
that are currently playing cards.
SAM: Stand down. At ease. Wait for my signal.
TALIESIN: 14 points up for you. 14 points up for
him.
MARISHA: I think Frumpkin really likes me. We had
a bonding moment. Frumpkin took care of me and
protected me.
LIAM: I know that it is true because I think his
thoughts and he thinks mine. We are the best of
friends. He's the best cat that any man could ever
have.
MARISHA: Okay, bye. And we go.
SAM: Where are we going? What's going on? Oh my
gosh. Is Fjord dead?
MARISHA: No. (whispering) But we found someone and
something.
SAM: Okay, let's go.
TRAVIS: While we're waiting for them, can I pick
up his longsword?
MATT: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Can I look at it?
MATT: It's pretty well-made.
TALIESIN: I still, by the way, have my Detect
Magic up. Am I getting anything?
MATT: Is Prayer of Healing concentration?
TALIESIN: So I would have had it when I came in.
MATT: When you came in? Yeah. The source of magic
was that box.
TALIESIN: Oh, is that box glowing?
MATT: Yeah.
TALIESIN: By the way, I suppose I would have said:
That box is definitely magic. I'd be very careful
with that. Yeah, let's be gentle with it. Was it
Soma? Mr. Soma?
MATT: "Soma."
TALIESIN: How did you get this gig? I was just
curious.
MATT: "I'm a hired protector."
TALIESIN: I mean, do you work for anybody or do
you have a deal with somebody? Do you like who you
work with? Seems kind of a rough gig.
MATT: "It is when people like you come in here and
ruin it."
TALIESIN: That's fair. This is just odd. I mean, I
imagine being sent with something I didn't know
anything about by god-knows-who, that will leave a
mind to wander. I don't know.
MATT: "You'd be surprised how much of an industry
revolves around just that."
TALIESIN: Yeah, you know, I would.
(laughter)
MATT: He's taken aback even more. "I will say, you
are definitely the strangest pirates I've ever
"heard of."
TALIESIN: Sort of a reluctant piracy at the
moment.
TRAVIS: You don't know the half of it.
MARISHA: We like to have fun at our job.
TALIESIN: We like everybody to walk away feeling
as okay with everything as possible.
TRAVIS: We're going to let you go now and be on
our way. I'm going to keep this as a memento. I
would advise you to stay below. If you pop up, I
can't guarantee the same good will be extended.
I'm sure you understand.
MATT: He nods begrudgingly.
MARISHA: Nice plate armor, by the way. (clicks
tongue) It looks expensive.
MATT: "It was." He looks over at the back part of
it that's been smashed to shit by the ogre's greatclub.
MARISHA: I toss the box to Nott. Catch!
SAM: Ah! What is this? What am I doing?
TRAVIS: Careful with that.
SAM: What do you want me to do?
MARISHA: We want you to open it.
SAM: Me?! Oh, Jesus.
TRAVIS: Do you want to take this on our ship and
let them be on their way?
SAM: What if it blows up? I don't want to blow up
our ship. I already did that once today.
LIAM: (pigeon cooing) Magical traps.
TALIESIN: Yeah, obviously it is magical, by the
way.
SAM: All right. Step back. Are there any alcoves
or closets or chests around here or anything?
MATT: There are a number of crates in the
vicinity.
SAM: Okay, I'll open a crate and put it inside and
then move back and use Mage Hand to try to open it
or check for traps with it.
MATT: Checking for traps, you have to get close
and inspect it.
SAM: Oh. Well then I will check for traps first.
MATT: All right, go for it. Make an investigation
check.
SAM: That is a 20!
MATT: It is trapped.
TALIESIN: How trapped is it?
MATT: It's a fairly complex trap.
SAM: Mechanical or magical?
MATT: Mechanical.
TALIESIN: So is the magic not coming from the box?
Or what was inside the box?
MATT: You gather it's probably what's inside the
box. You could attempt to disarm.
SAM: Can I attempt to disarm it with Mage Hand?
MATT: Yeah, that's what Mage Hand can do.
SAM: Okay, so back up, everyone.
TALIESIN: Let's get some distance here.
SAM: Cover your eyes. Cover your ears.
TALIESIN: I mean, you got to admit. I bet you're
pretty curious what's in there.
MATT: As Yasha's still clutching him there, he's
like--
TALIESIN: Keep everybody okay. I'm going to get a
little distance and I'm going to go outside the
room, just in case. Mr. Fjord, I would recommend
you get some distance as well.
TRAVIS: I will take that advice and join you.
MATT: Make a thieves' tools check, please, with
your dexterity.
SAM: 28.
MATT: As the gentle Mage Hand, clutching the
thieves' tools, begins to do this weird ghostly
finger dance across, you see it go (clicking)
Ting! You hear a spring break. As the Mage Hand
shockers the box, sure.
LIAM: (as Nott) Almost got it!
SAM: One in the pooper!
(laughter)
MATT: You hear the spring break on the interior
and it seems the trap has been disabled.
SAM: I think it worked.
MARISHA: Fucking open it.
SAM; Open!
MATT: That was disabling the trap. Now you have to
open it. Roll to unlock it.
SAM: Oh, it's still locked. With thieves' tools?
27.
MATT: There are three locks. There's one lock in
the front, and two on each side. Rapidly, they
come open.
SAM: Wow. I want to go look.
MATT: Okay. You go to open it up and the inside,
it's soft, velvet interior of the case. There you
see a small ceramic pot of some kind, roughly
about that big, that has a lid on it, and it is
enclosed. Then above it, mashed in there, a
paintbrush. About a foot long.
SAM: A foot-long paintbrush and a little pot of
paint.
MATT: A little pot of paint, it looks like.
SAM: We're not going to touch this. We're going to
take these to our friends who know what to do with it.
MATT: The guard glances over and goes, "This is
bullshit. This is fucking bullshit."
MARISHA: What, that you were--
MATT: "Yes!"
SAM: You were paid to carry this around? Do you
think it was a prank? Were you pranked by a friend
of yours or something?
MATT: "I don't want to talk about it."
TALIESIN: Mr. Caleb is going to maybe want to take
a look at that later. I would recommend hiding it.
TRAVIS: In a complete attempt to capitalize on
your disgruntled feelings, would you mind telling
us who paid you to guard this, or where it came
from? This paintbrush?
MATT: "I've already given you too much. Let me go
amongst my pride swallowing."
TALIESIN: I feel really bad about this. Can we
throw him any money or something?
MARISHA: We already threw him money, which means
you're going to tell us who paid you. Come on,
man, don't make us do this the hard way. We're
trying to be good. Who paid you?
MATT: "I don't know."
MARISHA: (deep breath) Come on. What was the
agency you sub-contracted from? I know how this
shit works.
MATT: "I do mercenary work out of Port Damali from
time to time, and other places along the shore.
"Normally, some of the higher-paying jobs are a
don't-ask-type scenario."
TRAVIS: Fair enough.
MARISHA: Thank you.
TRAVIS: I think we've taken up enough of his time.
You've been more than flexible with our questioning.
MATT: "That is very true."
TALIESIN: I think we won't mention to anybody that
we threw you a little cash. I mean, obviously,
that doesn't need to travel, and, you know,
whatever you need to do to maintain. I understand
dignity is a thing.
MARISHA: As well as the fact that you spit in my
face. I'm going to leave that here. We're going to
cross out these doors. None of it happened.
TALIESIN: Actually, if you like, we can walk out
of here being very irritated, like: Ugh! That guy.
Too much.
MARISHA: Oh, yeah! Do you want us to do that?
Like: Ooh! Ah! You got me in my kidney!
MATT: He's just giving the thousand-yard stare
into a shadowy corner.
TRAVIS: I actually do feel that way, so let's just
head up. We'll head up above.
MATT: All right. Bouldergut stops and turns around
toward him and pats him on the head, and then
follows up behind you guys.
TALIESIN: I feel like we should leave these people
with most of what we-- I think this has been
enough. I don't want to, you know, cause any more
trouble than we have.
TRAVIS: I agree. Do you want to make sure
everyone's feeling all right before we--
TALIESIN: Anyone else need some healing? Anything
real quick?
MATT: Captain Jules Errog says, "No! Would you
please leave us, if you have everything you need?"
LAURA: Lieb! Get back over to your ship! You're
going to miss it!
MATT: (panting and whimpering)
LAURA: Go go go!
TRAVIS: Jester, what are you doing?
LAURA: Oh, nothing!
MATT: He runs back across like, (panting).
LAURA: I made a friend!
TRAVIS: Can I reach over and-- Come here. I pull
his shirt aside. Did you do this?
LAURA: He has been marked!
MATT: (laughter) (whimpering)
MARISHA: That's rare.
TRAVIS: Thank you for your hospitality. I am glad
that we could complete this transaction peacefully.
MATT: The captain gives a nod. "Thank you for
sparing the lives of my men."
TRAVIS: I wish you calm waters and safe journey.
We will take it back over to The Squalleater.
MARISHA: As we're walking over, I whisper to Fjord
and I say: Avantika's going to want the paintbrush.
TRAVIS: What?
MARISHA: Avantika's going to want to know about
that paintbrush.
TRAVIS: Not yet.
MATT: As you guys come across, the rest of
Avantika's crew pulls over the gangplanks. They
pull up anchor. Avantika, looking over the
opposite side, goes, "Do not pull up your anchor
"until we are beyond your sight. if we see you
shift beforehand, we will turn right back around."
The other crew nods. Sails unfurl. Wind picks up.
Ship begins to move. You begin continuing to head
westward. Once you're a little bit out of earshot
and Avantika's keeping an eye off the edge of the
ship, looks back to the rest of you and (slow
clapping). The rest of the crew begins to clap and
there's a bit of applause. "With that, my friends,
welcome, truly, to what it means to be free on the
"sea. I'm proud of you. So! Let's see what you
found." They go to start opening the chest, and
we'll take a break there.
SAM: Boysie. I'm hiding the little pot-thing, by
the way.
MARISHA: Yeah, but Bouldergut was there.
SAM: Yeah, that's true.
MARISHA: Bouldergut saw everything, so unless we
want to bribe Bouldergut--
MATT: We'll get to that when we come back from the
break!
MARISHA: I have to pee, too.
TALIESIN: I know. I'm dying.
MATT: We'll be back here in just a moment. In the
meantime, we do have our Wyrmwood giveaway for the
evening. For this, you need to head over to the
Critical Role Twitch chat, that's
twitch.tv/criticalrole, to enter. Tonight's
keyword is reef. R-E-E-F. Enter it once. More than
once, you'll be disqualified. Once again, this is
only available for people in the US and Canada,
excluding Quebec. Tonight we have our fantastic
figured myrtlewood dice vault, which is a new wood
offered by Wyrmwood, which has actually really
cool texture to it. It's got a weird shimmer. It's
quite pretty and one of you is going to win that
when we return! Enter in the Twitch chat and we'll
see you guys here in a few minutes.
MATT: Welcome back, everyone. The winner of our
fantastic figured myrtlewood dice vault.
TRAVIS: Myrtle!
MATT: Myrtlewood! It's really pretty. Ironically,
well-named CaptainCupcake!
(cheering)
MATT: Congratulations, CaptainCupcake!
MARISHA: That's so cute.
MATT: (pirate voice) We'll get that sent to you
right rickety-split.
LIAM: (parrot voice) Captain Cupcake!
TALIESIN: (parrot voice) Captain Cupcake!
(realistic cawing) Sorry, too much! Reeling it in.
MATT: Having now made your way on the Squalleater
from, as far as I know, all of you, your first
real bit of piracy. Pulling away, the chest that
was brought on-board is currently being picked and
opened by some members of the crew. (thudding) As
it folds open, looking inside, you can see it is a
mass of gold, silver, copper, and an occasional
glimmer of platinum coins. This is quite a bit of
change. At which point, the captain looks over to
the quartermaster and goes, "Well done. This will
be divvied up appropriately. What else was found?
We've got some--" and then begin to point out the
food, the thawing tropical fruit that was placed
there.
MARISHA: Where's Bouldergut to me?
MATT: Bouldergut's sitting there with the rest of
you, looking around and listening to the captain,
looking off into the distance. Maybe ten feet from
you.
MARISHA: Okay.
SAM: (stilted) I have to go check on the cannons
downstairs. I'll be back later.
TALIESIN: Wow.
MATT: Make a deception check.
SAM: Minus three. Ten.
LIAM: I rolled a 12 on insight.
MATT: The captain glances past and goes, "Eh, why
don't you stay here, at least until we're finished
divvying up all the findings."
SAM: Of course, Captain. I am at your
beck-and-call.
TALIESIN: So weird.
MATT: "You're telling me. All right, anything
else? What transpired below? You have not told me
what happened. Apparently, there was some sort of
a scuffle?" and Bouldergut goes, "(deep chuckle)
Yeah. Tiny man in armor." You begin to realize, at
this point, not a whole lot of timbre difference
between the male and female ogres that you have
encountered in your time. It's generally just more
hair on the top of the head-- stubble's about the
same.
TRAVIS: Indeed, there was a man in full plate
armor who got quite a few shots in.
MARISHA: One less pirate and one less shipper
trying to prove himself a hero. Thought he could
stand up to the lot of us.
MATT: "That is impressive. Did you finish him
off?"
MARISHA: Well, we didn't kill him, but we
definitely embarrassed him thoroughly, something
that I find some men find worse than death.
MATT: "I'm impressed, you are all very strongly
adhering to this not-killing aspect of piracy. I
can tell you from experience, it does not last
very long, but I respect the intent. Anything else?"
MARISHA: I heard there were some very good
tropical fruits, super rare, in this crate. Based
on what I found, (clicks). Good meal later on.
TALIESIN: Did we keep the sword? I don't
remember.
TRAVIS: We did, yes. I kept a memento. I hold up
the longsword.
MATT: She looks at you, "Hmm, not bad." Bouldergut
leans in, right over your shoulder, Beau, and
goes, "What's the--"
MARISHA: I slip her 30 gold.
MATT: Make a sleight of hand check.
SAM: Bribing the crew in front of the captain.
MARISHA: I'm not-- I'm trying to-- Oh my god, are
you serious?
LIAM: It's a seven.
MARISHA: Oh, is it?
LIAM: Yeah, it's a seven.
MARISHA: That's still not great.
LIAM: No.
TRAVIS: That's a one.
MARISHA: That brings me to an 11?
LAURA: Is it a one or a seven?
TRAVIS: That's a one.
LIAM: Oh, it is a one!
MARISHA: It is a one? Nope, it's a one!
SAM: Clang, clang-clang.
MATT: As you reach back, your coins slip from your
grasp, and (clattering coins) all across--
MARISHA: Fucking hole in my pouch. Shit, how did
that--
MATT: Bouldergut goes (grunts) and starts helping
you pick them up, but fumbling with her giant fingers.
MARISHA: Thank you. Good show everybody, everybody
great time. Just wanted a round of applause.
LAURA: (cheering)
MARISHA: Captain Tusktooth!
LAURA: Go Captain Tusktooth!
MARISHA: Sorry. Quartermaster Tusktooth, formerly
captain for us.
MATT: "Indeed."
MARISHA: Anyway, it was a good day.
TALIESIN: Start doing a little more healing on
you.
MATT: Avantika gives a keen look towards Beau,
nods.
LAURA: Captain Avantika?
MATT: "Yes, Jester?"
LAURA: Would you like a tattoo?
MATT: "I already have plenty, but thank you, I
appreciate the offer."
LAURA: If you want any more, or if you want any of
the ones you have improved, just let me know.
MATT: "I will keep that under consideration.
Anyway, regardless, well done. Impressive work.
"Let's continue on to the Dragshallow Reefs. Come
on."
SAM: (running feet pattering)
LAURA: What are you hiding? I chase after Nott.
MATT: You catch up to Nott. Are you going as well,
or is it just you two?
SAM: I'm going downstairs.
MARISHA: What are people doing?
MATT: That's what I'm asking: what are people
doing?
MARISHA: We act casual.
TRAVIS: I stay up to entertain Avantika.
MARISHA: I, sensing my biff, casually I turn to
Ipess and say: Hey man, great work down there. How
great was that?
MATT: "You as well. It was very impressive."
MARISHA: So impressive, right?
MATT: "You beat the shit out of that man."
MARISHA: I fucking-- right? Saw that adrenaline
pumping.
MATT: "I could tell that. It was very nice, well
done."
MARISHA: Anyway, good day, man. I go downstairs.
MATT: "You too. Goodbye."
TALIESIN: I'm going to head down, obviously tired,
and just go follow you guys to take a nap.
MATT: Anyone else doing anything?
LAURA: I'm following Nott.
MARISHA: I'm trailing them.
TRAVIS: Bring that fucking wizard down here with
you.
MARISHA: I try to find Caleb. They do that.
MATT: Okay, you find Caleb. Caleb, if you haven't
left the top of the deck--
LIAM: No, I've been exactly where I was. Do you
want to know more about my cat? Because you walked
off before. The funny thing about a cat is that
they are very persnickety but with the right
person, they are not. Frumpkin with me, we are
just so.
MARISHA: Genuine question: have you been telling
this story the entire time I've been gone?
LIAM: No, that would be-- I'm a very intelligent
person. That would be foolish. I don't talk to
thin air. Also, some people say that they have
nine lives, which is funny, because we--
MARISHA: That's great. You know what? I have
something I think that you would be deeply
interested in, maybe.
LIAM: Did you find books?
MARISHA: I didn't. Fucking, goddamn it.
TRAVIS: I forgot to look too. I did too.
MARISHA: I didn't find fucking books.
LIAM: It's a long shot. We are on the--
MARISHA: Okay, books, cats, I get it, that's so
good. Love your fascination of both the most
boring things that I can think about, including
books and cats. But let's go look
at something awesome.
LIAM: You thought it too, didn't you?
LIAM, MARISHA, and MATT: (singing) Books and cats
and books and cats and books and cats...
LIAM: Ja. You're telling me your love of higher
learning, I understand. Did you need something?
Because you clearly don't want to hear about cats,
so we could end this now.
MARISHA: Just keep your mouth shut for like 30
damn seconds.
LAURA: What'd you find?
MARISHA: Follow me.
MARISHA: We bring him to them.
LAURA: What'd you find? What was it? What are you
hiding? I want to know!
SAM: Where are we? Let's get into our rooms. We're
going to go into our cabins.
MATT: All right, you go to your chambers.
SAM and MARISHA: Hi.
LAURA: Oh, hi! Nott's hiding something.
TALIESIN: I'm keeping a close eye on what's going
on, this is very-- they're being so sketchy.
MATT: Yasha pulls in, "What is going on?"
MARISHA: Shh, come in, shut up. Did anyone follow
you?
MATT: "No."
SAM: The captain can be invisible. She might be in
this room with us right now.
LAURA: (gasping) Let's all walk around, walk
around the whole room.
SAM: Just do this.
LAURA: Oh, that's you. That's you, Nott. Okay,
hi.
TALIESIN: (laughter) That tickles.
SAM: Do we feel anything?
MATT: No.
LIAM: That would have been so awesome.
TRAVIS: (impact) (gasping)
TRAVIS and MARISHA: Shank shank shank!
(laughter)
MARISHA: (wailing)
SAM: Here's what I got! It's a magical
paintbrush!
MARISHA: Do the thing. Figure it out.
SAM: Identify it.
LAURA: (gasps) Should I draw with it? Should I do
something with it?
SAM: Not yet.
LIAM: I can talk now? Okay.
MARISHA: Yes. Just not about cats and books.
LAURA: What is it?
LIAM: I will still help you. I need a moment, so I
set it down and start scrawling on the floor
around it, and about ten minutes later I have--
MARISHA: In the meantime, I'm like: Oh my god! So,
what happened? Is it like a tattoo?
LAURA: Yeah! It was amazing!
MARISHA: When are you going to do a tattoo on me?
MATT: The full box? Are you inspecting the full
box?
LIAM: No, because-- well, I guess I wasn't there.
No, I mean, if they put the box down in front of me.
MARISHA: I opened the box. This is the paintbrush
and the ink.
SAM: Is it a big box?
MATT: The box is about shoebox size.
SAM: But it's the size of the item contained
within.
MATT: Correct, yeah.
SAM: It's not giant or anything.
MATT: No.
MARISHA: Caduceus detected magic, and it was
glowy.
LIAM: That's a lucky find.
MARISHA: That's what I'm saying, so I need to
figure out what it is.
LIAM: You, shush, now, give me a moment.
(mechanical noises) Ten minutes later, after I
transform into an Autobot, I cast Identify through
the ritual spellcasting feat.
(gasping)
TRAVIS: Ooh, that's a big old thing!
TALIESIN: That's a novel.
LAURA: What is it, Caleb?
LIAM: I need time. It's a long piece of paper. It's a
lot of knowledge.
SAM: Long spell.
LIAM: So you talk amongst yourselves for one
minute.
LAURA: What do you want a tattoo of?
SAM: What do you think it-- Oh, a tattoo, if we
could pick any tattoo?
TRAVIS: Trecorum Satis Dee?
TALIESIN: Trecorum Satis Dee. You're welcome.
SAM: You mean, what physical attribute would we
increase, or what would you want the tattoo to be
a picture of?
LAURA: Yeah, no, what do you want a tattoo of,
like a picture of.
MARISHA: I've had an idea.
LAURA: What is it?
MARISHA: For just a little bit. So this is going
to be stupid.
TRAVIS: Probably.
MARISHA: You're not, fucking--
TRAVIS: (high-pitched) Not there!
(laughter)
MARISHA: The Not There Fairy? Not there!
TRAVIS: Flying away!
TALIESIN: (singing) Not there.
MATT: Cousin of the Metagaming Pigeon, the Not
There Imp. Not There Fairy, there you go. Don't
forget, Nott, you still have that marble, silver
shield thing.
SAM: Yeah, can he do more than one Identify at a
time?
MATT: You can take time to do it a few times.
LIAM: It's endless, but it takes ten minutes.
SAM: Oh. You mean, the shield?
MATT: The shield, yeah.
TRAVIS: Oh, fuck yeah.
LAURA: What?
MARISHA: I have this idea, because Molly, on the
back of his coat, his neck, his tattoo?
TALIESIN: He had it in the tattoo and the coat,
yeah.
MARISHA: On the back of his tattoo, he had an
all-seeing eye, and I just, I don't know, I
thought it was really cool, I feel like it could
be cool to have it on my back, right below my neck.
LAURA: I think Molly would like that.
MARISHA: Yeah.
LAURA: I mean, I don't know, maybe it was really
sacred to him and he would be really super
offended by it.
MARISHA: Oh, yeah, maybe it would, like I stole it
from him?
LAURA: But it's fine, I'm sure.
MARISHA: Yeah, you know, he's dead, so, what's he
going to do?
ALL: Wow.
TALIESIN: I was about to say, you can roll a d20
and if you roll a 20 I'll tell you what Molly
would have thought.
MARISHA: We'll do that later.
SAM: Any news, Caleb?
LAURA: What is it?
LIAM: Sit down.
LAURA: Okay, okay!
LIAM: This is your lucky day. This is very
dangerous to give to you, but you are the perfect
person to have it, so of course, well, here it is,
it is yours. This will allow you to paint things
and they become real.
MARISHA: Yes! I was so hoping for this!
TRAVIS: What do you mean?
SAM: Anything?
LIAM: Almost anything. Nothing too fancy.
MARISHA: Isn't that an old Chinese folklore, a
magic paintbrush?
TALIESIN: This is some Bugs Bunny shit.
MARISHA: It's the magic paintbrush.
TRAVIS: Like the "Who Framed Roger Rabbit"
warehouse?
TALIESIN: Oh yeah.
TRAVIS: Singing sword, and black hole?
LIAM: This will allow her to paint a door and
there to be a door. This will allow her to paint
a sword and there will be a sword.
TRAVIS: What?
LIAM: All you can eat, Fjord.
SAM: Wait.
MATT: It does eventually use up the paint over
time.
LAURA: It can do a thousand square feet of
surface? I mean, I learn from you in a moment?
LIAM: I explain it all in about a minute.
SAM: When you walk down an alley and paint
dicks--
SAM and MARISHA: There'll be real dicks!
LAURA: (yelling)
SAM: Just dicks everywhere, dicks and dicks!
TRAVIS: Dicks hanging out the walls.
MATT: (laughter) I didn't think this through!
TRAVIS: (laughter) "I didn't think this through?"
SAM: Just a wall full of dicks!
TALIESIN: How did you not think this through? This
was inevitably where this was going.
MATT: No, in hindsight, it occurs to me.
SAM: If someone falls asleep, you could paint a
dick on their head, and they'll have a dick on
their head!
LAURA: (shouting) Oh my god!
SAM: (yelling)
LAURA: This is my favorite thing in the entire
universe.
TRAVIS: (newscaster voice) A rash of wild dicks
have appeared in Wildemount and through the
Dwendalian Empire. No one can explain the huge
dongs protruding from walls, sculptures, and holy places.
LAURA: This is the most amazing thing in the
entire universe.
TALIESIN: Fields of phalli.
LAURA: I won't lose it, I won't! Caleb!
LIAM: So just don't create a penis on my head,
okay? And we're square.
LAURA: I promise I will not draw a penis on your
head.
LIAM: Excellent.
SAM: Can it make living things?
TRAVIS: A finite amount of ink, or what?
LIAM: No, it cannot do that.
SAM: Not living things.
LAURA: Inanimate.
LIAM: It cannot create fabulous jewels, and it
cannot create piles of gold.
MARISHA: Haha, dick joke.
LAURA: But it can get us an escape from somewhere,
it can--
SAM: If we wanted to spirit ourselves away from
this boat in the middle of the night, she could
paint us a boat.
MATT: She would need a surface to paint it on.
SAM: Oh. Paper?
TALIESIN: It would be a really big-- you would
have a tiny boat.
SAM: Not a ship, I'm talking about a raft, she
could just paint a little raft and we could (boop).
TALIESIN: Then we'd be a raft in the ocean.
LIAM: You could, in theory, paint a small boat on
the deck of the ship if no one was watching, but
that would be a difficult thing to do.
TALIESIN: That would take a long time, though.
MARISHA: This is a real conversation we actually
need to have, with the entire group present,
speaking of.
SAM: We're here.
MARISHA: Except for Fjord.
SAM: Oh, Fjord.
TALIESIN: We're heading to port regardless. I
figure at some point--
MARISHA: Yeah, I feel like before port. We need a
plan before port.
TRAVIS: Before port.
LAURA: Oh my god, this is the most amazing thing
in the entire universe.
TALIESIN: I figure things don't change regardless,
as long as we're on the ocean.
TRAVIS: Before port (snaps fingers).
MATT: You only had to actually be pirates and
fucking roll a ship to get it, so live with that.
LAURA: I'm okay, I can live with that.
TRAVIS: Does it say how much paint it comes with?
LAURA: It comes with enough to cover a thousand
square feet of surface.
TRAVIS: Wow, okay.
MARISHA: I don't want to waste that.
LAURA: So if I made a ship then it would use a lot
of it.
MARISHA: We could just steal a ship.
LAURA: But I mean, lots of things that are little,
oh my god.
SAM: Or one pretty nice-size apartment.
LAURA: Just think about how many dicks that is! If
it's like a five-inch dick, that's like 2000 dicks.
TRAVIS: What if you painted a 500-pound diamond?
LAURA: No, you can't do that.
TRAVIS: Okay.
LIAM: It would create a facsimile of that, but it
would be worthless.
TRAVIS: Got it.
TALIESIN: The things it makes are not--
SAM: Quick, Caleb, Identify this in ten minutes. I
give you the shield to Identify.
LIAM: What? (see-n-spell voice) This is a Formica
table, green is its color.
TALIESIN: I have good news: your favorite chewing
gum--
MARISHA: Fjord.
MATT: Goddamn it.
SAM: What can your imagination make? Keys.
Ladders.
TRAVIS: (singing)
TALIESIN: Rope.
SAM and TALIESIN: Outfits.
SAM: Clothes?
LAURA: If you want, they're non-magical items.
MATT: Yeah.
SAM: Catwoman outfits.
MATT: Technically.
LIAM: This is good, this can blast an enemy with a
bit of arcane oomph.
SAM: A shield that can fight?
LIAM: A little bit, yeah.
SAM: That's so cool. Who can use a shield? Do we
have any shields?
TRAVIS: Well, Caduceus.
LAURA: I have a shield.
LIAM: You have a shield?
SAM: Caduceus?
TALIESIN: I have a shield. Do you need a shield?
TRAVIS: My AC's 17.
LIAM: Did we bring him down here yet?
MATT: No.
LIAM: Go to hell.
MARISHA: Oh, I was going to say: I go get Fjord.
TALIESIN: Can I take a look at that thing, maybe?
MARISHA: Casually, but like I don't want to
interrupt, like a cocktail party.
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: I do the: When you're ready, just (clicks
tongue). Just where we are.
LAURA: Maybe because it's up-close and personal
with Fjord, or it could be good for us.
TRAVIS: Why don't you protect the clerics?
LAURA and TALIESIN: Well... (laughter)
TRAVIS: Aw.
TALIESIN: What's your AC again?
TRAVIS: 17. (pause) No, you guys have it.
LAURA: It's pretty cool.
TALIESIN: Yeah, I really like my shield, though,
but this is interesting.
SAM: Can I use a shield? No.
TALIESIN: No.
MATT: I don't think you--
LAURA: (laughter) "No!"
MARISHA: Technically anyone can use a shield,
but if you're not proficient in it--
MATT: Technically anyone can use a shield, but
you're not proficient you get a bunch of bad things.
TALIESIN: This would push it to 18. All right.
MARISHA: Because we've just covered this in our
Handbooker Helper episode.
SAM: Oh! Light armor.
MARISHA: Uh-huh.
TALIESIN: All right.
MATT: Correct, no shields.
TRAVIS: Consider it a gift, after nearly dying.
TALIESIN: Fair.
TRAVIS: In the past, well, now eight days.
TALIESIN: I may just, for my own personal
aesthetic, try and mount my beetle wings onto
this, but I like it. I'll do that later.
MATT: All right.
SAM: What do we do now, Fjord?
MATT: I'll have to add it to there myself.
TALIESIN: You'll have to add it?
MATT: It's a custom item.
MARISHA: I told him, "When you're ready, this is
where we are."
TALIESIN: In the meantime, it's just plus one to
my AC. How many attuned items can I have
at this level?
MATT: For any level it's three.
TALIESIN: Three, all right.
LIAM: Let's get Captain Tusktooth down here,
because that was an interesting afternoon, but it
was not what I want to do with the rest of my
life.
MARISHA: I have a lot of ideas.
TRAVIS: Yeah, I'll find my way back down to the
rest of them.
MATT: Okay, there you go.
TRAVIS: What'd we get?
SAM: Nothing.
TRAVIS: Shit.
LAURA: Just some paint.
TRAVIS: Weird that they would have an armored guy
with a longsword protecting a paintbrush
that does nothing.
MARISHA: How do you feel about floating dicks?
TRAVIS: I'm not opposed.
MARISHA: All right.
SAM: It's a floating dick-making paint.
TALIESIN: Better than sinking dicks, I suppose.
LAURA: I mean, should I try it, just to see?
SAM: Don't waste any paint, but yes!
LAURA: I'm going to paint on the floor the
teeniest of dicks. Like, this big.
MATT: Okay. You take a little bit, you do this
little dick, and suddenly--
SAM: A flaccid penis, or an erect penis?
LAURA: An erect penis.
MARISHA: Of course.
LIAM: That's the go-to.
MATT: Okay, and you paint it, and finish it, and
you look at it, and take the edge of the
paintbrush and nudge it, and it rolls a bit.
(surprised laughter)
MATT: It's like a stone sculpture; it's not
fleshy, it's not made of flesh.
TRAVIS: You didn't Frankenstein, make that
triumphant bastard into life.
MATT: Yeah, you're not turning this into Second
Life, with all the different fucking floppy dicks
flying everywhere.
TRAVIS: It's not the dick brush, it's the
paintbrush!
LAURA: Wait, I have a question, then. If I make a
tree, if I draw a tree, would the tree be made of
stone or would it be made out of-- would it look
like a tree?
MATT: You'd have to find out and try.
TALIESIN: This may actually give you-- wait, what
is your AC bonus to your shield?
TRAVIS: Just +1.
TALIESIN: This would actually-- this doesn't give
me an 18, this just keeps me at 17 because I was
already at a +2 with my shield.
TRAVIS: Oh!
MATT: No, it's +2 and then +1 on top of that.
TALIESIN: Oh okay, so right now it's only giving
me a +2.
MATT: Hmm, I'll double-check that.
TALIESIN: Maybe I haven't-- oh, never mind, now
it's working, there we go. I hadn't attuned it.
MATT: Ah, there you go.
LAURA: I pick up the little stone penis. Who wants
it?
TRAVIS: So we found a paintbrush that you can
paint things and they will come into being? Is
that what it is?
SAM: That's right.
TRAVIS: Wow, and the shield?
TALIESIN: A little gaudy for my tastes, but I'm
going to do a little work to it.
LIAM: Will hurt your enemies, not just protect
you.
TRAVIS: Can I just ask how everybody-- humor me--
feels after today?
MARISHA: Wow.
TALIESIN: Prefer not to make a habit of that.
TRAVIS: Yeah, me neither.
MARISHA: I mean, it feels like a bucket list item
checked off the list, but, there were several
times that I might have questioned everything that
we were doing.
TRAVIS: Wait, bucket list as in "hijack a ship
before you die" kind of a thing?
MARISHA: I mean, we just had the full pirate
experience that a travel agency could not provide.
It was very authentic, and that was amazing.
TALIESIN: You're hard to follow sometimes, you
know that?
MARISHA: Huh?
TALIESIN: Ah, nothing, just--
TRAVIS: Nott, I'd ask if you have any
reservations, but you seemed very enthusiastic
about today's--
SAM: I was born to be a cannoneer.
TRAVIS: Uh-huh. I can't promise there will be a
lot of that but at least I know that you're DTF,
cool. Caleb?
MARISHA: Down To Fire!
TRAVIS: Yep, fire. Caleb, how you doing?
LIAM: I mean, this is a matter of survival. If we
do not cooperate, she's going to kill us. I'm not
opposed, per se, to what went down today, but it's
not what I want to do with my life. I would prefer
to break away from this woman, but we're here for
you right now. You are trying to figure out, you
know, your thing. I think I'd like to hear from
you what the long-term plan is. Are we on the
ship, in the sea? Is that what you're after?
TRAVIS: Yeah, actually I do have some news to
share. Avantika apparently has come across my old
mentor, Vandren, before. She knew him. Apparently
he carried the same sword that I have, it's called
the Sword of Fathoms. Has a name. She's of the
opinion that he always carried on him the sword
and another one of those spheres, an eye. She
asked me if I knew where the ship that I was on
went down. I did recall the area and she believes
that if we were to search that shipwreck we might
find this third sphere. She has the ability to
mess with water now, and in some of the dreams
I've been having, I believe there's quite a bit
more where that has come from.
MARISHA: Still having those dreams, then.
TRAVIS: Not all the time. I admit, I've been very
excited about all of this, but the things I see
are world changing. Scary.
MARISHA: In a good way or a bad way?
TRAVIS: I don't know.
MARISHA: Or is it dependent on the operator?
TRAVIS: I don't know that either.
LIAM: What is the good scenario, the good version,
of releasing a massive serpent onto
the Menagerie Coast?
TRAVIS: Well when you say it like that... I don't
know. I meant only the power that might come
before that happens.
LAURA: Does the serpent get released if the little
orbs are spread out amongst other people or do
they all have to be in one person?
TRAVIS: I--
TALIESIN: Or three?
TRAVIS: I actually don't know. I'm just assuming
that because she placed her sphere at the bottom
of that well in that temple, there are two other
temples which we have to do the same thing and
that might lead to the release of that serpent.
MARISHA: But you think that one of the other's
spheres is at the bottom of the shipwreck. Not
necessarily a temple.
TRAVIS: Right, the third sphere, and I have the
second.
MARISHA: But you--
LAURA: But doesn't she have two spheres?
SAM: No, she had one, but she got rid of it. Fjord
has one.
MARISHA: Fjord and he traded it for power.
SAM: So it would good for us to get that last one
so that she can't.
LAURA: What if she does get the last one?
SAM: Then we would have failed.
MARISHA: Well, at least she would be twice as
powerful as Fjord is one.
TRAVIS: It would be a lot for one person.
MARISHA: I mean there's also--
SAM: She would want the third.
MARISHA: Which is inside of you.
SAM: Which means she would want Fjord's body.
TRAVIS: Correct. Can I just take a second and ask
Caduceus to check the door?
TALIESIN: I've been paying very close attention
and listening in to the hallway and trying to keep
a very--
MATT: Make a perception check.
TALIESIN: (blows raspberry) 15.
MATT: Okay. It seems to be fairly clear.
TALIESIN: Haven't heard any footsteps or--
MATT: No.
SAM: Look at the port window! Is there a port
window?
MATT: In the room you're in currently, there is
not a port window.
TRAVIS: Without saying too much more, I think it's
best that we all listen to Caleb's words and play along.
MARISHA: Uh-huh.
TRAVIS: We'll be making our way to Darktow.
MARISHA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: And then we will reevaluate.
SAM: But the overall mission is to get-- Don't say
anything?
TRAVIS: Just feel like-- and I'll try and be
subtle as possible that only the people in the
room would hear. (whispering) There are people
that we can't see. I just don't feel like this is
the best place to converse.
SAM: We've been feeling around the air.
TRAVIS: It's not our ship.
TALIESIN: I feel like for the time being, it just
might be best to-- be the best we can be here and
be as helpful as humanly possible. Our goals are
relatively aligned and as long as we don't have to
hurt anybody, I'm all right. But the rest of these
people--
MARISHA: Do we (whispering) need more
information?
TALIESIN: Always.
MARISHA: (whispering) To find your ship?
TRAVIS: I think I would know the location based
off the trade route.
MATT: You know the general vicinity of where it
would have happened. It would take a little bit of
searching and a little bit of-- you know.
TRAVIS: At the bottom of the fucking ocean?
MATT: Yeah. Depending on what you have at your
disposal, like definitely narrow the search, but
if it's just based on your memory it would take a
while to find it, but you know the general area
where it went down.
MARISHA: Sotto: I was debating heavily in watching
Avantika to see if, with a distraction of trying
to board the pirate ship today, that I can maybe
sneak into her office with the distraction. But I
noticed she was very adamant holding back and
watching the entire scenery. It was not safe to go
into her quarters. If we need to get into her
office, I think it's going to have to be an
important enough and big enough distraction.
LAURA: Maybe, Fjord, you can, like, go seduce her
or something. Then, you know, with the seduction,
then (whispers) you can sneak into her office.
SAM: Some people give up information when they've
been seduced as well.
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm.
SAM: Is that something you could do?
TRAVIS: All good ideas.
LAURA: It just seems like she's into you, you
know?
SAM: I noticed that as well.
TRAVIS: Trying to use that to our advantage.
MARISHA: (whispers) You're doing great!
TRAVIS: Thanks, I appreciate it. I'm trying to
keep her close. If she starts to suspect us, we'll
be in trouble. If anyone feels uncomfortable with
how things are going, please, let me know. My
curiosity is not worth dying for or doing
something you feel like you'd regret. I value what
everyone thinks here.
MARISHA: I think if we don't do anything, it means
your eventual demise.
TRAVIS: Well, that's just fucking dark.
SAM: No, I think she's right.
LAURA: Yeah, I think you're fucked.
MARISHA: Unless we beat Avantika to the punch.
LAURA: If you don't fuck, you're going to get
fucked.
SAM: Ooh!
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Now, Jester, where would you learn a
phrase like that?
LAURA: I lived--
SAM: She lived in a brothel.
LAURA: Yeah.
SAM: Do what you need to do to get all the
information out of her that you can. If we see you
cozying up with her, we'll know. We'll know that
it's just an act.
TRAVIS: Cool, yeah. Caleb said something similar
last night-- or, a couple days ago. All right,
well, enjoy the paintbrush.
MARISHA: Oh is that it? Is that our meeting? Okay,
yeah.
TRAVIS: I mean, we're going to find our way to
Darktow.
LAURA: Does it make you uncomfortable? Do you want
someone else to seduce her?
MARISHA: Yeah, because I volunteer.
LIAM: She's made her interest pretty clear.
TALIESIN: Well, when we want to find the ship, I
think I might be able to help.
TRAVIS: With the seducing?
TALIESIN: What? No. I mean, no. Definitely not.
TRAVIS: I mean, Caduceus, if you want to teach me
a thing a two about wooing a woman--
TALIESIN: Yeah no, I really don't think I have
anything to add to that. I think you've been doing
just fine.
TRAVIS: Yes to what you said, and yes to what you
said.
TALIESIN: I think I might be able to help you find
the ship.
MARISHA: You want me to help seduce Avantika.
TRAVIS: You just do you, girl.
MARISHA: All right.
TALIESIN: I don't understand what any of this is
anymore.
TRAVIS: Yeah, I think that will be very valuable
when the time comes.
TALIESIN: I thought-- Oh, about finding the ship,
that's all.
TRAVIS: About what time of the day is it?
MATT: At this point, it's later afternoon.
MARISHA: Oh! It's early.
TRAVIS: Time to break out the banana margaritas!
It's only afternoon!
MARISHA: It's four o'clock!
MATT: It's like five or so; you're like an hour or
two from dusk.
MARISHA: Okay.
SAM: Let's just do our jobs. I've got a cannon to
fix.
TRAVIS: Sounds good.
MATT: All right.
MARISHA: I'm going to make some barrels?
TRAVIS: Caleb, can I speak to you for a moment?
Above deck?
LIAM: Of course.
TRAVIS: I'll go up.
LIAM: I will follow.
MATT: The rest of you go about your business?
LAURA: I will follow.
TALIESIN: I'm going to take a nap. Taking a short
rest.
MATT: Yasha does the same.
LAURA: I'm going to stand at a distance looking
over the rail.
MATT: Okay.
TRAVIS: How far away are you?
LIAM: How far away is she? We're in broad
daylight.
LAURA: I'm like, you know, far away.
SAM: Six, seven feet.
LAURA: Just looking out, looking, drawing, I'm
very distracted.
LIAM: Just dicks dropping into the ocean.
TRAVIS: (splashing)
(laughter)
MATT: How far away are you, Jester?
LAURA: I think 15 feet.
MATT: 15 feet.
LIAM: Not far.
TRAVIS: Seeing where Jester is, I'll pull Caleb
aside. May I ask you a frank question?
LIAM: Of course you can. I scan around for
Avantika.
MATT: Make a perception check.
LIAM: Okay. That is a 22.
MATT: Looking about, across the deck, you do not
see her currently near or visible.
TRAVIS: I had to admit I found myself a bit
surprised. My initial impression of you was
someone a bit timid and maybe reserved; meek even.
Your tone, your opinion of what to do with
Avantika in order to make sure that we're okay, it
seemed very... calculated. Very... risky. Do you
mind me asking if you've-- Have you ever
sacrificed anything in order to achieve a greater
goal? Because I feel like I am swimming in the
deep end and I don't quite know what I'm doing.
LIAM: You are dealing with very large
responsibilities right now. I don't envy your
position. You know, my father was a soldier and he
expected a lot. I learned a lot from him. I've
tried to live up to the man that he was and I've
largely failed, but I've picked up what I could.
Used my wits, understand my surroundings. I wish I
had half the courage he did. I don't know. You
know, I think traveling with all of you has
emboldened me some. I was alone for a long time
and ran from everything. I like this group and I
enjoy traveling with you, Fjord.
TRAVIS: Likewise. You don't miss much, do you?
LIAM: I've always been like that; I have a very
good memory. I remember everything.
TRAVIS: You have a very shrewd sensibility as
well. You seem to be able to weigh pros and cons
in an equation, a scenario.
LIAM and TRAVIS: Math brain.
LIAM: I feel like a fool much of the time. I'm
glad you think so highly of me.
TRAVIS: I do. I don't mean any of it as a
critique, but more as a compliment and I'll add
with it a request. Keep that eye of yours on
Avantika for me. I don't entirely know what her
intentions are, but I feel like there are only a
few that I could ask to exercise quick judgment in
a moment of need.
LIAM: I start nervously twiddling a wire in my
hand absentmindedly.
TRAVIS: I think you know what I mean, but in case
this thing gets out of hand, can I count on you to
right the ship if need be?
LIAM: Keep the group safe?
TRAVIS: Of course.
LIAM: As always, I will do my best.
TRAVIS: Thank you and thank you for talking with
me.
LIAM: I cough very hard into my hands and cast
Message to him and briefly, quietly say: I think
that woman is going to try to kill you, I really
do.
TRAVIS: Yeah. Just so. I'll turn and walk off.
LIAM: (coughing)
LAURA: You need some water, Caleb?
LIAM: Yeah, do you have some?
LAURA: Uh. (pause) I create water in my hands.
TRAVIS: Wait, you can do that?
LIAM: I receive it. There's not much left. Most of
it spilled.
LAURA: I'll keep creating it in your hands as you
drink.
SAM: You can create water?
LAURA: Yeah.
SAM: When did that happen?
LAURA: I've always been able to do it.
TRAVIS: What do you mean?
LAURA: Shut up.
LIAM: Is this a custom?
LAURA: Yes. Just keep drinking. Keep going.
LIAM: It's good.
MATT: A few more days' travel to Darktow. A couple
of moments here. In one night that you are in your
room sketching your book, testing out some of your
new paints, you feel a hand on your shoulder. You
glance over and you can see the pale, soft fingers
and a dark greenish sleeve resting there. You
glance over to the side and you can see the
draping hood and the slight curved smile across
the angular chin of the Traveler protruding from
beneath the cloak.
LAURA: Hi.
MATT: "Hello. I see you found a new toy."
LAURA: I have magical paint!
MATT: "Well I'm quite excited at the things you're
capable of, Jester. How are things?"
LAURA: They're pretty good. Did you want me to
make you something with the paint?
MATT: "Surprise me."
LAURA: Okay. Um, Traveler?
MATT: "Yes, my dear?"
LAURA: Are you having fun on our trip?
MATT: "Yes, I've been... pleasantly surprised."
LAURA: We're pirates!
MATT: "I know, your tenacity is impressive."
LAURA: We stole things, but they gave something
back just like you always teach, you know?
MATT: "Maintain that balance. That seed of
chaos."
LAURA: Traveler, how do I make a boy like me?
MATT: "Well there are many different enchantments
that could achieve the goals you seek."
LAURA: I don't know if I want to do it with an
enchantment.
MATT: "Trickery?"
LAURA: Maybe?
MATT: "Listen. Listen to what piques his interest.
And then happen to be the source when he needs it.
"If that fails, there are plenty of enchantments
that can sway his mind."
LAURA: I mean, right? You'll help me out with
that?
MATT: "I'll do my best."
LAURA: You're not jealous, are you?
MATT: "No."
LAURA: You'll always be my number one love.
MATT: "I know. So what are you making me?"
LAURA: I want it to be a surprise for you, I can't
tell you.
MATT: "I'll wait."
LAURA: Okay. I'm glad you're here.
MATT: "I'm never far."
LAURA: It's a surprise!
MATT: (laughs) What are you making him?
LAURA: Oh gosh. Oh my goodness. Okay, with my
magical paint-- Oh gosh. I was planning on fucking
up some other things, but right now I will make a
little shrine, like a little statue of the
Traveler, that way I can pray to him.
MATT: As you finish painting it, it takes gravity.
It almost seems to fall a centimeter and center
itself. It goes from a two-dimensional shift, it's
almost like blinking--
LAURA: I want him shimmery green.
MATT: Sitting up from the edge of the bed, the
cloaked figure walks over and lifts it and
inspects it and places it back down.
LAURA: What do you think?
MATT: "You're getting better."
LAURA: I could leave these around other places?
What do you think?
MATT: "Preferably where it would be the least
expected."
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: "And the creepiest to find."
MATT: "I'm excited."
LAURA: I've got to get to work.
MATT: "Yes."
LAURA: I can make so many of these.
MATT: "Make me proud, Jester."
LAURA: I will.
MATT: "The time's coming soon, we'll meet the rest
of your brethren."
MARISHA: What?
LAURA: Right, I wrote it down! It's soon, right?
MARISHA: What does that mean?
SAM: (whispering) The rest of your brethren?
LAURA: Yeah, in like less than a year.
TRAVIS: What?
MATT: "Soon, my dear."
MARISHA: Is there like an Advent calendar?
MATT: As you look up from your notes, closing your
book, you turn to look and the Traveler is gone.
TRAVIS: That's the first we heard that, right?
MARISHA: Less than a year?
LAURA: Yeah! I wrote down the date somewhere, I
know it.
TRAVIS: We heard that before, right?
MATT: You guys don't know anything.
LIAM: Private conversation.
MATT: Fjord.
TRAVIS: Yeah?
MATT: Maybe two days out from the reefs you go to
bed that night.
TRAVIS: (whispering) Oh shit!
(background music)
MATT: As sleep takes you, you find yourself
kicking through the thick sludge-like waters that
surround you. Sluggish in your movements, the
darkness all-encompassing, yourself alone in these
shadowed depths. A faint green light is visible in
the distance. You push and swim towards it, light
glowing brighter. Closer. As that grows closer, a
second light, even further, impossibly distant but
you can acknowledge it, rests on the horizon. As
that first light gets brighter, you can see this
source taking shape. It's a figure. Female. Nude,
also swimming. Avantika, emanating this strange
green glow. Swimming ahead of you, her body
wreathed in this faint greenish-yellow aura. She
looks and points to you. The waters around you
seem to glow the same color light. You look down
at your body and you see that you are now the
third glowing source of this green energy.
Suddenly, the waters are easy to traverse. What
was once sluggish and difficult to Fjord is second
nature. A voice comes through. "Watching." The
distant light you see suddenly dives with
incredible speed. Nearly out of sight, Avantika
dives down after rocketing down below you.
Breakneck in her speed, you dart after her to give
chase, moving far quicker than you anticipated.
You realize the water is becoming thinner and
thinner, like air. You're falling. Three shooting
stars plummeting through a dark sky. "Learn."
Glancing down below this endless void you plummet
towards, you make out the details from a surface
rushing towards you. You plummet towards an ocean.
The faint distance endless glittering of moving
shifting waves of some sourceless moonlight, just
barely giving the shapes below, with three large
masses beneath you like a misshapen triangle of
land masses of incongruent sizes. One, two, three.
You rocket downward towards the space between the
three, the center of this triangle. Hitting the
waters of the ocean with tremendous force, impact
but no pain. You sink. The light of the other two
figures glittering through the lightless waters.
Down, down, you sink. Until you see a
structure coming to view from below. A tilted
tower, wrapped in sea vines, the hollow center
providing a wide tunnel further within. You peer
inside this empty tunnel of the tower's depths and
watch as a sudden bright, yellow light shines from
within: a gleaming yellow eye. "Reward." As the
two other lights seem to try and drift towards
you, behind you, you fall into darkness and the
dream ends.
TRAVIS: Fuck. I wake up and immediately grab the
map.
MARISHA: Yes, queen, yes.
LIAM: The wettest dream.
MARISHA: Fucking triangulation shit.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Blow me into Bermuda.
TRAVIS: Okay.
MARISHA: Because we were over here, right? In the
reefs? Uk'otoa?
TRAVIS: Well, Urukayxl, and we've been heading
towards Darktow, so we've been coming across-- did
we pass the wall? Coming in this direction, did we
pass--
MATT: You did, you passed south of it. Your piracy
stunt hit right at this trade route there.
TRAVIS: Okay.
MARISHA: I mean, if it's a triangulation--
SAM: Why would there be one there?
MARISHA: Well, this is where we're going,
technically this is the shipwreck.
SAM: That's where we're going, yeah.
MARISHA: Right? This was where we were.
TRAVIS: That's where we were.
MATT: That's where you were. The three masses were
not even in shape and size, and they were clustered.
MARISHA: There's another reef here.
TRAVIS: There is.
MARISHA: Then there's Torrid Reef here.
TRAVIS: There is, and then dead center is a lot of
space. You could say that this is the center,
but-- okay.
LAURA: Are any of those places close to your
shipwreck that you know of?
TRAVIS: Well, the shipwreck is here.
SAM: What is this triangle of? Where the three
objects are, or where the three temples are?
TRAVIS: Well, in the vision the three land masses
are in a triangle.
MARISHA: Do you know in which direction the ship
was heading?
TRAVIS: At the time?
MATT: At the time, from what you recall, the ship
was heading outward.
TRAVIS: Yeah, so it'd be heading west.
MARISHA: Maybe he knew where to go, and he was
heading there to get his gift.
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm.
MARISHA: Said Beau in a morning breakfast
conversation or something.
MATT: Yeah. Anyway. Contemplate this.
TRAVIS: Yeah, I'll be doing that later.
MATT: In the next few days that pass, eventually
the fog rolls in and the blue, cloudy skies you
have become familiar with on this journey give way
to gray, rainy, and cold, this marine front
rolling in as you begin to come upon the outskirts
of the Dragshallow Reefs.
SAM: Matt? Before you go on, can I just real
quickly steal a bunch of gunpowder, while I was
learning how to be a powder monkey?
TRAVIS: You did have days.
MATT: Okay, you do know that the current master
gunner is keeping a very close eye on you after
you have exhibited--
SAM: I'm talking like a pinch here.
TRAVIS: Shawshank style?
SAM: Yeah, little pinches at a time. I don't want
tons, I'm not trying to steal a barrel, just
enough to make one of those bangy arrows again,
just enough for the tip of an arrow.
MATT: Okay, make a sleight of hand check.
SAM: That's a natural one.
MARISHA: Oh my god.
MATT: Okay. You steal, over time, a pretty decent
amount of this powder. You're pretty damn proud of
it, yeah. Write down on your inventory you have a
handful of pepper.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Black pepper.
SAM: I'm going to be trying to construct a
explosive arrowhead at some point.
MATT: Awesome, go ahead and roll for that.
LIAM: You've successfully secured deez nuts.
SAM: What am I doing? Tinker's?
MATT: This would be tinker tools, yeah.
TALIESIN: You could make a sneeze arrow, in
theory.
SAM: What is it, dex?
MATT: With this one, it would be, yeah, dex, since
you've already made one.
SAM: 15.
MATT: 15? Yeah, you manage to construct a pepper
arrow.
MARISHA: If someone's allergic, they're fucked,
yeah.
MATT: Pepper bolt, there you go.
LIAM: When life gives you pepper, make pepper
arrows.
MATT: The ship skirts around the southern edge of
the reefs. You can now see the tangled graveyard
of destroyed ships and gathered driftwood marking
the shallow spots across this jagged cluster of
reef. Curving around a southwestern passage, a
channel, that opens. The channel beckons you entry
as you turn to head northward to what would be the
center, the heart of this cluster. No more than
maybe 20 minutes into entering this channel,
Avantika shouts up at the rest of the crew, "Raise
"the colors!" at which point the massive ogre,
Bouldergut, tosses the gnomish second mate, Ipess,
high up to the central mast, to the crow's nest,
where he swaps out the flag to a new one, one that
is straight purple. As it begins to push its way
in, make a perception check.
MARISHA: All of us?
TRAVIS: Is the flag just solid purple?
MATT: Make a perception check.
MARISHA: We've seen this before.
LAURA: Natural 20.
MATT: This is a different flag than the one that
was raised during piracy.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: Natural what?
LAURA: Natural 20.
MATT: Okay.
TALIESIN: 14.
MATT: 14, so what's the total?
SAM: 19.
MATT: Nice.
LIAM: 14.
MARISHA: 20, not natural.
TRAVIS: Ten for Fjord and 19 for Yasha.
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: Natural 20 with a total of 24.
MATT: Okay. Jester, it's a couple of things. You
pick up on the detail of the flag. It is straight
purple but there is something... different about it,
you're not entirely certain. It looks like a
straight color, but there's, sometimes, some of
the way the light hits it, you can see a sheen in
parts of it. That's the best I can describe. The
rest of you also look around and you can see
amongst these reefs, not only are there the jagged
bits of it that come forward and bits of rock that
jut out the ocean amongst the rest of the rubble
around, and it looks like a lot of it has been
placed both as a communal barricade on top of the
reef, and as a challenge to anything that wishes
to come in, but you can see in areas where the
rock itself is a little more sturdy and above the
surface, there are watchtowers, and there are
bolt-throwers and catapults, and there are
defenses all across elements of this reef that you
imagine are one of the many reasons it's not been
taken back by the Clovis Concord in what you would
know to be the 40-plus years that Darktow has
belonged to what is known as the Revelry.
TRAVIS: The Revelry?
MATT: The Revelry is the communal band of pirates
that work together to maintain some internal
order. Make a history check, Fjord and anybody
else proficient with history.
TRAVIS: 17.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: The Revelry?
LIAM: 25.
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: 11.
MATT: Fjord and Caleb, you know that this began as
a dispute with the heads of the guilds in the
Clovis Concord. They own and run a majority of the
trade routes that come in and out, but a lot of
the smaller shipping businesses and various other
side-industry leaders were being over-taxed,
repeatedly, in an attempt to close them out of the
business and essentially completely own all means
of shipping in the vicinity. This pissed off a lot
of people, and eventually, in moments of combined
desperation and frustration, they banded together,
and where Darktow was previously a very important
repair and stopping station this far out from the
Menagerie Coast for long-distance shipping, they
ransacked it and took it over. They killed those
that defended themselves, and any of those who did
not want to raise arms would be absorbed and be
allowed to become a member of what was now called
the Revelry. As such, they have since held this
location and continued to be the source of piracy
both for their own wealth and continuation of
well-being, but also as a continuous source of
aggression and destruction of the otherwise very
prosperous trade that the Clovis Concord runs. You
do know also that the Revelry is run by what's
called the Plank King.
MARISHA: That sounds super inviting.
MATT: The previous one was killed 15 years ago by
the current Plank King, who challenged him. The
Plank King is known as Wyatt Marinas, and all you
have heard is he is a giant of a man. As you move
deeper through this channel, the day goes on,
begins to get somewhat dark as you begin to see
the glittering lights of the southern edge of
Darktow Isle. The cold pulls through, and a light
rain begins to fall as you approach. This island,
unlike the jungle islands that you've come across
and a vast majority of the Swavain Islands here
off the Menagerie Coast, is mostly rock and cliff.
In fact, from what you can see, most of this
island from this perspective is jagged cliff face
and probably a few hundred feet up is where the
island's even surface even begins. At the base
around this cliff face you can see a scattered web
of a shipyard, just tangled docks that
maneuver around containing dozens and dozens of
ships. Across that you see numerous torches that
mark various intersections where they all meet,
and built into the base of this cliff face, you
see a number of buildings and windows, all slowly
being lit as the night grows darker and darker.
This mass of natural-looking, hive-like pirate
city there stands before you. Welcome to Darktow.
SAM: Darktow!
MARISHA: Dope.
TALIESIN: Beautiful.
MATT: As the ship makes its way to the docks and
eventually comes to a stop, you can see a few
figures up there at the edge, one of them that
rings a bell as it comes in, and a couple that
come out to meet Avantika. Steps out, and there's
a couple of hands raised, and go, "Hail,
"Avantika!" She goes, "We have returned! I know it
has been quite a while, but success and
"celebration, I believe, are on our lips tonight."
A few of the men come up and look over the crew
and look over a few of you and take some notes,
and then dart off.
TRAVIS: Guess we're part of the island now.
SAM: Are we off the ships yet?
MATT: The ship now has docked, they're beginning
to take remains of the supplies, the Mistake is
pulled off onto the other side and Orly and your
other hired crew are looking very wide-eyed and
confused about what the fuck is going on. You
literally hired a bunch of guys out of--
TRAVIS: They didn't sign up for that shit!
MATT: Nicodranas that have now been brought into
a--
TRAVIS: A month-long journey?
MATT: Yep.
MARISHA: Wow. Okay.
MATT: As you begin to step off the ship--
TRAVIS: Kill those guys.
MATT: Jamedi steps off with the rest of you.
MARISHA: Oh no!
MATT: Looks to Avantika, and goes up to her and
goes, "You still owe me 50 more gold. I counted
"what you gave me." She goes, "Oh, my apologies, I
thought I had correctly counted that." She pulls a
few coins out of her purse and hands it to him.
Counts it himself. "Our business is concluded."
Looks to the rest of you. "Be careful around this
one. Be safe." He turns and walks into the city.
LAURA: I liked him.
SAM: Dead man walking.
TALIESIN: Complicated feelings.
SAM: I'm going to get on my hands and knees and
kiss the ground.
MATT: It is salty with sea splash and cold to the
touch because of the nature of the stone.
SAM: I love it.
TRAVIS: I thought for sure Caduceus was going to
give Jamedi a little--
TALIESIN: He got away quick, yeah, that was not a
good time.
MATT: No one talked to him over the journey.
TALIESIN: Nope.
LAURA: I thought he was on the other ship. I guess
we were switching back and forth between ships?
MATT: There was a lot of back and forth over the
journey. Avantika turns to the rest, "Crew! It has
"been a good journey. You have all been very kind.
You have been resolute and Uk'otoa will be proud."
LAURA and MARISHA: (whispering) Uk'otoa.
MATT: "Tonight we drink! Come. Let us be off to
The Bloated Cup. The rounds are on me."
SAM and MARISHA: The Bloated Cup.
LIAM: (whispering) Uk'otoa.
MATT: Marius comes around the edge of the--
TRAVIS: Oh god!
SAM: (nervous voice) Hi Marius.
MARISHA: Oh my god, Marius!
MATT: Of the docks. Yes, remember Marius?
LIAM: Yes.
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: Yes. He's like "Okay, don't mean to make
this really-- Where the fuck are we?"
TRAVIS: We're at the end of the world, my friend.
MATT: "Okay."
LAURA: You're a pirate. Ta-da.
MATT: (nervous sighing)
TRAVIS: It's going to be time for you to toughen
up a bit. Do you have a pirate face?
LAURA: It's really good. That's good.
TRAVIS: Is that a pooping face or--
MATT: "Both, really."
TRAVIS: Okay, well, until you find a better one,
that'll do. What's your pirate name?
MATT: "What should it be?"
MARISHA: Marius the Mariner. LePual.
MATT: "Got it."
MARISHA: Le--
MATT: "Oh, there's more."
MARISHA: LePain.
MATT: "LePual LePain."
MARISHA: LePual LePuain. I don't know. That's all
I got.
TALIESIN: That was really good. Do me.
MARISHA: Oh. Caduceus the... Juices?
TALIESIN: I like juice.
MATT: Orly's big turtle hand clasps on the back of
your left shoulder, Beau, and goes "Oh, I kind of
"like that one."
MARISHA: How do you mean?
MATT: "Well, I like juice."
MARISHA: Okay. Yay. Yeah.
LAURA: Orly the Swirly.
SAM: Yeah, that's good.
MATT: (unsure, uncomfortable humming)
LAURA: Teach me how to do tattoos that are fancy.
MATT: "Wait, what?"
LAURA: Make me your apprentice. Make me your--
bequeath me.
MATT: "I'm going to need a drink."
MARISHA: I guess we'll follow?
MATT: The rest of the crew, looking confused
amongst themselves stick together and they come
over. One of them, his name would've been-- oh.
Actually no, at this point, this is Gallan.
Gallan, who has recovered and is--
LAURA: Fellow carpenter!
MATT: Yes. Who has become loosely the-- because
he's the only one who was originally on the Mist
and knows it well-- he's become the den mother of
the other hired crew you've brought into this
wiley adventure. He comes up and goes, "So. All
these ones."
TRAVIS: Yeah?
MATT: "What's the plan?"
TRAVIS: Did we say there was a plan?
MARISHA: Mm, do we live with plans?
TRAVIS: I'm not sure. Did we have a plan?
MARISHA: We had a vague idea.
SAM: We hired them for a certain amount of time.
LAURA: Yeah. We should probably let them go home
eventually.
TRAVIS: I don't even really remember who they
are.
TALIESIN: I mean, to be fair, we should let us go
home eventually.
LAURA: Yeah. Maybe they should stay on the boat.
SAM: After it's repaired.
LAURA: Yeah. Then we will take them home
eventually.
MARISHA: Don't we need to pay them more?
TRAVIS: No. I think we've brought them to a port
of great business. If they choose to stay here,
they certainly can. Otherwise, they'll have to
wait until we're leaving again.
MATT: "I'll ask around." He doesn't seem bothered
by it. He's been here before. Gallan left this
port on the Mist. But he seems genuinely-- Over
the travel, he's gotten a little bit concerned and
seems somewhat invested in the new crew you've
hired. He goes and relays that message to
the rest of them.
TRAVIS: I'm just scared.
MARISHA: Whoops.
MATT: In the meantime, the rest of the crew seems
to have followed suit with Avantika, leaving a few
crewmen that are just a part of the docks to keep
watch.
TRAVIS: How guarded or patrolled or monitored are
the docks?
MATT: Pretty damn well patrolled and monitored.
This is the bread and butter of their business.
TRAVIS: In this area, are there uniformed patrols
or do you just see well armed--
LIAM: Muscle is obviously everywhere.
MATT: You get the sense here, and based on your
history checks, everyone who resides in Darktow is
a member of the Revelry.
TRAVIS: Is packing.
MATT: By the way, you guys are members of The
Revelry.
MARISHA: So by touching down on the island, you
become a member.
MATT: Well, by becoming part of Avantika's crew,
coming into port, and having a few individuals
mark your presence, you imagine that's probably
the case.
MARISHA: We're a part of The Revelry.
MATT: Well, what are you guys doing?
TRAVIS: We're going to follow.
LIAM: We're going to be following the people who
have been here before.
TALIESIN: Let's make sure the crew knows that they
should be repairing the ship and we need to be
ship-shape at some point.
LAURA: Yeah.
MARISHA: I don't know if that was the easiest
membership I've ever obtained, or the most
difficult membership I've ever obtained. It's kind
of hard to say.
LIAM: Following up on Fjord's question, or Travis'
question, the muscle that we see around us, does
it look like it's-- are we in Deadwood, or is
there a strong police force of sorts that is
making sure that shit is not going down
constantly?
TRAVIS: Something they would wear that would
identify.
LIAM: Yeah, is there anyone in charge, or is it
just a saloon with cowboys everywhere?
MATT: It's more the former than the latter, from
the first part. There is no uniformed guard,
there is no--
TRAVIS: They're not wearing a hat or a sash.
TALIESIN: This is golden age of piracy Barbados,
basically. We're in the thick of it.
MATT: Yeah, the heavy realm of piracy has only
existed for 40-plus years, on this coast.
TALIESIN: Oh wow, okay!
MATT: It's still, in some ways, finding its
footing.
TRAVIS: Oh lord! We all going to die! We'll tell
the crew they can have the evening. They can have
the evening, we've just been at sea this whole
time, but in the morning, we expect work to
continue on The Mistake.
LIAM: Probably the only rule here is "Talk shit,
get hit."
MATT: Winding through the docks, following the
rest of Avantika's crew, the docks and bridges,
it's this labyrinth to find your way beyond that
to the stone and rock where you had kissed
earlier. The city itself is a series of switchback
paths and carved caverns and cave entrances that
have since been outfitted with pieces of wood,
with windows. Now, at this point, it's pretty much
pitch black in the sky. What little bit of light
there is from the nearby torch and lantern light
gives just a hint of the mist that's rolled in
across the outskirts of the island. The only light
sources you have are those you keep on you, or the
distant glowing smattering of hundreds of fire-lit
windows, lit from the inside the warm buildings
that make up the city. As you make your way to
what you assume to be the tavern, The Bloated Cup,
if you will, Avantika's currently standing outside
talking to somebody. There you see this burly,
rough-looking human man, probably a week and a
half unshaven, this thick five o'clock shadow.
Grayish curled hair that goes right about
shoulder-length. It's slicked back, probably with
his fingers to one side, but it's oily enough
where it stays in place. Looks like he's wearing
an officious coat, and they're currently in the
middle of a discussion, and she looks over her
shoulder to the rest of you and goes, "Ah, my
"apologies. There is one bit of business we must
attend to before we can celebrate. The rest of you
"continue on. My new compatriots, it seems," and
the human figure pipes up and goes, "Word has
"reached the ears of the Plank King that you've
brought new blood here to Darktow. I imagine these
"are the new blood based on," and he looks at a
sheet of paper that's handed to him and looks at
the description that was written, "and he would
appreciate you bringing them to The Throne Roost
"and have an audience."
SAM: Who, who are you?
MATT: "Well, I'm the assistant of the Plank
King."
SAM: What is your name?
MATT: "James Tybalt."
SAM: James Tybalt. Assistant to the Plank King. Do
we need to bring any presents or anything to the
Plank King when we meet him?
MATT: "I'm certain he wouldn't argue." He smiles
now. This is the first time you've seen his grin
and there's, maybe, six or seven teeth. Most of
them are blackening. "I'd recommend y'all follow me."
SAM: Yes, sir!
MATT: "You too, Avantika. He wants to check in."
She sighs but gives a smile. "Ipess, bring like
"500." He starts counting out gold from one of the
chests they had brought with them.
TRAVIS: We never divvied up that box.
MATT: No.
LAURA: No, we didn't.
SAM: That's for her to do.
MARISHA: That's for him to do.
TRAVIS. No. For me to do?
LAURA: It's the quartermaster.
MARISHA: It's for the quartermaster. He said divvy
up treasure.
MATT: That's what quartermasters do.
SAM: Balls.
TRAVIS: Yeah, it was intentional, guys. We're
fine.
MATT: It's all good. The coin is passed over to a
smaller chest and Avantika carries it up under her
arm. You guys are led to the western side of this
city and then begin climbing up this precarious
set of winding stairs carved out of the rocky
cliff.
LAURA: Whoa!
MATT: Above the city, slick with mist and recent
rain. It looks like the way the wind's hitting,
the rain isn't hitting the cliff side, but you can
see it passing maybe 15, 20 feet in front of you.
LAURA: This is precarious, you guys!
MATT: Partway up this climb, the occasional torch
is now replaced with a wooden pike holding a skull
or a head at varying stages of decay.
SAM: I hear rain.
LAURA: I'm going to put my metal, scary mask on.
MATT: Okay, you put your metal scary mask on.
TRAVIS: You feeling at home there, Deucy?
TALIESIN: This is nice.
MATT: You're led up further, maybe 250, 300 feet
up this cliff face. Leading you with some of the
bursts of wind to lean against it to pull across.
The stone stairs themselves vary from two feet
wide to maybe a foot at times. Looking down over
the edge, you can imagine a few folks have found
their end with an odd misstep. The stairs finally
stop at a wide stone shelf that overlooks the town
at about 200 to 300 feet above, the furthermost
edge ending just above the rocky waters of the
inlet. A cave mouth greets you against the cliff,
warm with firelight. Two watchmen notice you and
they stand there keeping an eye as a cloaked man
pushes past you to descend from where you came. He
just pushes past you. Avantika nods to the guards
and shows the chest.
TRAVIS: The guy that pushes past, what's he look
like? What's he wearing?
MATT: He's a little ways past you now. Make a
perception check.
TRAVIS: You can't just let these guys go by!
SAM: It was just a dude!
TRAVIS: Nine!
MARISHA and LAURA: Nein!
MATT: It's too dark and there's too much rain.
It's hard to make out any details, unfortunately.
Avantika continues in after showing the chest, the
offering. The rest of you follow?
LAURA: That is our offering, too. It's all our
offering.
MATT: As you follow inside, the smell of fine
cooked meats and sauces mingles with wet leather
and stagnant water. A soft fiddle and squeezebox
duet dances through the evening air, the bardic
sources atop stools next to a large stone chair
carved from the surrounding rock. Sitting atop the
throne is a giant of a man; half giant, to be
precise. His dull, gray skin marked with scars,
his coat long and velvet blue, tattered at the
edges. Plain breeches and boots shift as he
stands, his eyes cold, shifting with his smile.
Long black curls toppling along the sides of his
head, past his shoulders, framing his face to
about mid chest. Now, you know this through your
research and some of you had experiences, for the
most part male goliaths don't have hair, let alone
such luxurious locks.
MARISHA: European, British giant shit.
MATT: As he stands up, a servant enters and leaves
a bowl of somewhat bruised feet-- somewhat bruised
fruit at the feet of the throne. The large figure
claps his hands once loudly and the music stops,
coming to a halt. "Deep guests. Avantika. You
bring guests. Welcome, friends, to the Revelry.
"Come, sit a spell." Two servants all of a sudden
come behind, you hear the scraping of wood against
stone as two long benches are pressed behind you.
You find yourself awkwardly having to sit on them
as they creak with your weight. Another bowl of
nuts and somewhat mushy berries is placed in
Caduceus' hands, a bottle of wine is opened and
handed to Caleb. "My manners, where are they?
"(chuckles) I am Wyatt Marinas, the Plank King of
Darktow, master of the Revelry."
LAURA: All hail the king.
TALIESIN and SAM: All hail the king.
MARISHA: Hear hear.
MATT: "And you are?"
SAM: Oh, yes. We are part of Avantika's crew, but
humble servants in her adventurous adventures. I
am-- some call me Gilligan, others other names. I
present to you this dried meat of the harpy as a
present for you. Harpy jerky.
MATT: Sets it awkwardly on one of the arms of the
stone throne. "Okay, Gilligan. So, Avantika, it
"seems you took all of these under your wing." She
nods and takes her chest and puts it forward and
goes, "That is true, and I believe the rest will
introduce themselves here in another moment."
LAURA: I'm the Little Sapphire. I lift up my-- I'm
the Little Sapphire.
MATT: (grunt of acknowledgement)
LIAM: Oh, my name is Philip.
MARISHA: I'm Beau. Some call me Tracy.
TRAVIS: I'm Fjord Tusktooth, quartermaster of the
Squalleater.
TALIESIN: They call me Clay.
MATT: Yasha just goes, "I'm Yasha." "Well, you've
all come under the banner of the Squalleater. What
"draws you to a life of piracy? What drives you?"
SAM: So much!
TRAVIS: What drives any of us? Necessity. Urgency
for a better life.
MATT: "All right."
LAURA: Ships are really cool. We like to steal
things.
MARISHA: Disdain for organized crime in the
Empire.
TALIESIN: I serve nature. I'm a maker of fine
graves.
TRAVIS: (laughs)
SAM: I just love water so much!
(laughter)
SAM: Can't get away from it! Ooh, doggy.
LIAM: Oh, is this required? Refugee from the
Empire, looking for better life.
MATT: Looks to Yasha. "I like to punch things?"
Kind of smiles. Looks back over his shoulder,
"You've got all that, Linus?" And you see off to
the side, in an alcove you weren't looking, you
see a man, hunched over, who's currently writing
everything down in a book, and sketching, and he's
paying really close attention to everybody, and is
listening.
LAURA: (gasps) You draw too?
TRAVIS: Stenographer.
MATT: "Yeah."
LAURA: Do you want to show me some of your
drawings?
MATT: "No."
(laughter)
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: He's feverishly taking notes and sketching.
You recognize, he's drawing as well as making notes.
LAURA: I'm going to, definitely, every time he
looks over at me, pose differently, so that he
gets the best--
MATT: Okay. "Well, if the captain here vouches for
you, then I trust you won't go causing any
"trouble. Only law here is no trouble coming
between pirates while within the reef. You cause
"trouble on land, I judge you. You've seen a few
judged on your way up here."
MARISHA: Oh yeah.
TALIESIN: We did? Oh, yeah.
MATT: "Trouble outside the reef, well, you'll
either return to explain your cases, and I decide
"what's fair, or in need of punishment, or if you
don't return, I just assume you're guilty. Them's
"the big ones, you understand?"
LAURA: Does this just include harming other
pirates, or stealing from them too?
MATT: "Depends on what the other one thinks. If
the other one doesn't want to be harmed or stolen
"from, well, that's breaking the law."
LAURA: Got it.
TRAVIS: What if the other one isn't around to
lodge a complaint?
MATT: "Well, hard for me to hear that you broke
it. Now, Darktow means protection, means family.
"And family shares its good fortune." He looks to
Avantika, and she now kicks the chest across, and
scrapes. He stops it with his foot, and kicks open
the lid and the coins are there now, visible, a
couple spilling out. "I accept your tribute.
Welcome back. We'll get your ships up and fixed
"real soon. Welcome to the Revelry. (laughs)."
(uneasy laughter)
MATT: "You all sorry lot, you've certainly shacked
up with one of the craziest lasses of the Swavain
"Islands, that's for sure."
LAURA: She's crazy all right.
MATT: "A damn dream-chaser, she be. So be warned
where she leads you: she's crazy. Fucking nuts."
LAURA: I thought that the entire time.
SAM: Yeah.
MATT: She looks up at him and goes, "You are quite
the peach yourself, there, master." Squints to
himself. "Well, thanks, that's it, shove off. Get
the fuck out of my room."
SAM: May I just ask, this Linus person over there,
are they just writing everything down that we say?
MATT: "Yes."
LAURA: Balls tits mother-bitch, I love dogs and
poop.
(laughter)
MATT: He's glaring over at you.
TRAVIS: (gibberish)
(laughter)
TALIESIN: We should take our leave.
SAM: I guess so, we're going to go just enjoy your
fine place now, thank you for having us.
MATT: "Of course."
MARISHA: Do you have a favorite cocktail at the
Bloated Cup?
TRAVIS: Or a favorite spot.
MARISHA: A brew, or--
MATT: "No, I have my drinks brought up here."
MARISHA: Right, course you do. All right, bye.
MATT: As Avantika leaves, the rest of you are
leaving. Takes his arms and pushes you out,
leading you to the exit.
TRAVIS: Just the Plank King and Linus in that
room, outside from Avantika?
MATT: Make a perception check.
TRAVIS: 17.
MATT: 17. Couple of things you notice. One: you
glance in the vicinity, you look and notice the
Plank King. Right where the hairline is, it's a
duller, paler white. In that moment you remember
the first Plank King was definitely known for his
longer, darker locks.
(groaning)
TALIESIN: That's metal.
TRAVIS: It puts the lotion in the basket.
TALIESIN: That's some metal shit.
MATT: Looking around the interior of the chamber,
because the way this is carved inside the
mountain, it's this nice arched cavern top and
there are number of alcoves and hidden spaces, and
you glance around it and first, at just a quick
glance, notice at least six or seven other figures
that are hidden in the alcoves, just watching.
TRAVIS: Creatures?
MATT: Figures. Seem to be either human or--
MARISHA: Roof snipers.
TRAVIS: (whispers) Statues.
MATT: As you're all being ushered out of the
chamber and pushed to the side, the Plank King is
like, "Anyway, off with you! Enjoy your night,
drink well. We'll take care of that," and there's
a little tug on your arm, Beau. The Plank King
comes and whispers in the side of your ear. He
says, "You've a keen ear, right? Avantika ever
does anything untoward to our little community
"here, you let me know. There's some grand coin in
it for you."
MARISHA: How much?
MATT: Just backs away.
MARISHA: I yank away from him. Move on.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: She's a snitch.
TALIESIN: Can tell you're a snitch. Can tell at 50
feet. Of course you're a snitch.
(laughter)
MARISHA: Am I that transparent?
TALIESIN: You are.
TRAVIS: You said, "How much?"
TALIESIN: You sit in the bathroom stall with your
legs raised, with a notebook.
MATT: With that, you make your way out, back to
the stone steps. Avantika sees you all exit and
goes, "Well, that was harrowing and necessary, but
over. Now for drinking, yes?"
TRAVIS: Indeed. He seems like quite the benevolent
leader.
MATT: "He's certainly a series of adjectives, yes,
I'll give you that."
TRAVIS: How long has he been in a seat of rule?
MATT: "Well over a decade, probably."
MARISHA: How much on average do you pay him to not
kill you?
MATT: "Oh, well, it's not paying him to not kill
us, it's sharing in our spoils to better the community."
MARISHA: And if you didn't share your spoils?
MATT: "I don't know. I've never tried."
MARISHA: Right.
LAURA: He has beautiful hair.
SAM: It's awesome, yeah.
TALIESIN: Very. It's lush.
TRAVIS: Yeah, it's something.
MATT: "Nevertheless, I'm going to get drunk. Who's
with me?"
SAM: Hear hear, let's go.
TALIESIN: I will follow.
MATT: "All right, come on." She smiles and turns
around and you all begin to make your trek down
the somewhat slick stone steps to the darkened
city of Darktow, the glittering firelight, the
open windows below leading you to whatever revelry
the evening has in store. And that's where we'll
pick up next week.
TRAVIS: (yells) Oh god, we're on pirate island!
SAM: How did this happen?
LAURA: It's so cool, though.
MATT: You a stole a ship and followed the path!
TRAVIS: We're surrounded by a reef and artillery
and pirates!
LAURA: We were going in a completely different
direction and now we're pirates!
TRAVIS: He's wearing somebody's scalp, you guys.
MARISHA: There's a war on another continent, and
we're not a part of it.
TALIESIN: I am so proud of you all.
SAM: I will say this, though: In comparison to
these folks, we're not so bad. We're not that bad.
MATT: It is a point of comparison, this is true.
TRAVIS: We're in the main of other creatures.
LIAM: Guys, we're the heroes here.
LAURA: Yeah, yeah. Wow.
TRAVIS: Good shit, Matt, good shit, Matt!
MATT: Well guys, this is a very unique flavor of
campaign.
TALIESIN: The Plank King is cool.
MATT: "He's a fun one." On that note, folks, we're
going to pick this up next Thursday. Look forward
to the art book coming on sale Monday morning, the
final chapters, the second half and end of Vox
Machina's campaign, as created and presented by
you, the fantastic art community. Yeah, other than
that, have a wonderful weekend, we love you, and
is it Thursday yet? Goodnight, guys.
(wolf whistle)
TRAVIS: Oh, the fucking hat!
[music]